Discourse analysis (DA), or discourse studies, is a general term for a number of approaches to analyze written, vocal, or sign language use, or any significant semiotic event.
The objects of discourse analysis—discourse, writing, conversation, communicative event—are variously defined in terms of coherent sequences of sentences, propositions, speech, or turns-at-talk. Contrary to much of traditional linguistics, discourse analysts not only study language use 'beyond the sentence boundary', but also prefer to analyze 'naturally occurring' language use, and not invented examples. Text linguistics is a closely related field. The essential difference between discourse analysis and text linguistics is that it aims at revealing socio-psychological characteristics of a person/persons rather than text structure.
Discourse analysis has been taken up in a variety of social science disciplines, including linguistics, education, sociology, anthropology, social work, cognitive psychology, social psychology, area studies, cultural studies, international relations, human geography, communication studies, and translation studies, each of which is subject to its own assumptions, dimensions of analysis, and methodologies.

Topics of interest
Topics of discourse analysis include:
The various levels or dimensions of discourse, such as sounds (intonation, etc.), gestures, syntax, the lexicon, style, rhetoric, meanings, speech acts, moves, strategies, turns, and other aspects of interaction
Genres of discourse (various types of discourse in politics, the media, education, science, business, etc.)
The relations between discourse and the emergence of syntactic structure
The relations between text (discourse) and context
The relations between discourse and power
The relations between discourse and interaction
The relations between discourse and cognition and memory
Political discourse
Political discourse analysis is a field of discourse analysis which focuses on discourse in political forums (such as debates, speeches, and hearings) as the phenomenon of interest. Policy analysis requires discourse analysis to be effective from the post-positivist perspective.
Political discourse is the informal exchange of reasoned views as to which of several alternative courses of action should be taken to solve a societal problem.
History
Although the ancient Greeks (among others) had much to say on discourse, some scholars consider the Austrian emigre Leo Spitzer's Stilstudien [Style Studies] of 1928 the earliest example of discourse analysis (DA). It was translated into French by Michel Foucault.
However, the term first came into general use following the publication of a series of papers by Zellig Harris beginning in 1952 and reporting on work from which he developed transformational grammar in the late 1930s. Formal equivalence relations among the sentences of a coherent discourse are made explicit by using sentence transformations to put the text in a canonical form. Words and sentences with equivalent information then appear in the same column of an array. This work progressed over the next four decades (see references) into a science of sublanguage analysis (Kittredge & Lehrberger 1982), culminating in a demonstration of the informational structures in texts of a sublanguage of science, that of immunology, (Harris et al. 1989) and a fully articulated theory of linguistic informational content (Harris 1991). During this time, however, most linguists ignored these developments in favor of a succession of elaborate theories of sentence-level syntax and semantics.
In January, 1953, a linguist working for the American Bible Society, James A. Lauriault/Loriot, needed to find answers to some fundamental errors in translating Quechua, in the Cuzco area of Peru. Following Harris's 1952 publications, he worked over the meaning and placement of each word in a collection of Quechua legends with a native speaker of Quechua and was able to formulate discourse rules that transcended the simple sentence structure. He then applied the process to Shipibo, another language of Eastern Peru. He taught the theory at the Summer Institute of Linguistics in Norman, Oklahoma, in the summers of 1956 and 1957 and entered the University of Pennsylvania to study with Harris in the interim year. He tried to publish a paper Shipibo Paragraph Structure, but it was delayed until 1970 (Loriot & Hollenbach 1970). In the meantime, Dr. Kenneth Lee Pike, a professor at University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, taught the theory, and one of his students, Robert E. Longacre developed it in his writings.
Harris's methodology disclosing the correlation of form with meaning was developed into a system for the computer-aided analysis of natural language by a team led by Naomi Sager at NYU, which has been applied to a number of sublanguage domains, most notably to medical informatics. The software for the Medical Language Processor is publicly available on SourceForge.
In the late 1960s and 1970s, and without reference to this prior work, a variety of other approaches to a new cross-discipline of DA began to develop in most of the humanities and social sciences concurrently with, and related to, other disciplines, such as semiotics, psycholinguistics, sociolinguistics, and pragmatics. Many of these approaches, especially those influenced by the social sciences, favor a more dynamic study of oral talk-in-interaction. An example is "conversational analysis", which was influenced by the Sociologist Harold Garfinkel, the founder of Ethnomethodology.
In Europe, Michel Foucault became one of the key theorists of the subject, especially of discourse, and wrote The Archaeology of Knowledge. In this context, the term 'discourse' no longer refers to formal linguistic aspects, but to institutionalized patterns of knowledge that become manifest in disciplinary structures and operate by the connection of knowledge and power. Since the 1970s, Foucault´s works have had an increasing impact especially on discourse analysis in the social sciences. Thus, in modern European social sciences, one can find a wide range of different approaches working with Foucault´s definition of discourse and his theoretical concepts. Apart from the original context in France, there is, at least since 2005, a broad discussion on socio-scientific discourse analysis in Germany. Here, for example, the sociologist Reiner Keller developed his widely recognized 'Sociology of Knowledge Approach to Discourse (SKAD)'. Following the sociology of knowledge by Peter L. Berger and Thomas Luckmann, Keller argues, that our sense of reality in everyday life and thus the meaning of every objects, actions and events are the product of a permanent, routinized interaction. In this context, SKAD has been developed as a scientific perspective that is able to understand the processes of 'The Social Construction of Reality' on all levels of social life by combining Michel Foucault's theories of discourse and power with the theory of knowledge by Berger/Luckmann. Whereas the latter primarily focus on the constitution and stabilisation of knowledge on the level of interaction, Foucault's perspective concentrates on institutional contexts of the production and integration of knowledge, where the subject mainly appears to be determined by knowledge and power. Therefore, the 'Sociology of Knowledge Approach to Discourse' can also be seen as an approach to deal with the vividly discussed micro-macro problem in sociology.
Perspectives
The following are some of the specific theoretical perspectives and analytical approaches used in linguistic discourse analysis:
Applied linguistics
Cognitive neuroscience of discourse comprehension
Cognitive psychology, studying the production and comprehension of discourse.
Conversation analysis
Critical discourse analysis
Discursive psychology
Emergent grammar
Ethnography of communication
Functional grammar
Interactional sociolinguistics
Mediated Stylistics
Pragmatics
Response based therapy (counselling)
Rhetoric
Stylistics (linguistics)
Sublanguage analysis
Text linguistics
Variation analysis
Although these approaches emphasize different aspects of language use, they all view language as social interaction, and are concerned with the social contexts in which discourse is embedded.
Often a distinction is made between 'local' structures of discourse (such as relations among sentences, propositions, and turns) and 'global' structures, such as overall topics and the schematic organization of discourses and conversations. For instance, many types of discourse begin with some kind of global 'summary', in titles, headlines, leads, abstracts, and so on.
A problem for the discourse analyst is to decide when a particular feature is relevant to the specification is required. Are there general principles which will determine the relevance or nature of the specification.
See also
Actor (policy debate)
Critical discourse analysis
Dialogical analysis
Communicative action
Discourse
Essex School of discourse analysis
Ethnolinguistics
Foucauldian discourse analysis
Linguistic anthropology
Narrative analysis
Pragmatics
Rhetoric
Sociolinguistics
Stylistics (linguistics)
Worldview
Further reading

Bhatia, V.J. (1993) Analysing Genre: Language in Professional Settings. England: Longman.
Bhatia, V.J. (2004) Worlds of Written Discourse. London: Continuum.
Blommaert, J. (2005). Discourse. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Brown, G., and George Yule (1983). Discourse Analysis. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Carter, R. (1997). Investigating English Discourse. London: Routledge.
Corcoran, J. (1971). Discourse Grammars and the Structure of Mathematical Reasoning I, II, and III, Journal of Structural Learning 3.
Gee, J. P. (2005). An Introduction to Discourse Analysis: Theory and Method. London: Routledge.
Deese, James. Thought into Speech: The Psychology of a Language.Century Psychology Series. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice Hall, 1984.
Halliday, M.A.K., and Greaves, W.S. (2008). Intonation in the Grammar of English, London, Equinox.
Halliday, M.A.K., and C.M.I.M. Matthiessen (2004). An introduction to functional grammar, 3d ed. London, Arnold
Harris, Zellig S. (1952a). "Culture and Style in Extended Discourse". Selected Papers from the 29th International Congress of Americanists (New York, 1949), vol.III: Indian Tribes of Aboriginal America ed. by Sol Tax & Melville J[oyce] Herskovits, 210-215. New York: Cooper Square Publishers. (Repr., New York: Cooper Press, 1967. Paper repr. in 1970a, pp. 373–389.) [Proposes a method for analyzing extended discourse, with example analyses from Hidatsa, a Siouan language spoken in North Dakota.]
Harris, Zellig S. (1952b.) "Discourse Analysis". Language 28:1.1-30. (Repr. in The Structure of Language: Readings in the philosophy of language ed. by Jerry A[lan] Fodor & Jerrold J[acob] Katz, pp. 355–383. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1964, and also in Harris 1970a, pp. 313–348 as well as in 1981, pp. 107–142.) French translation "Analyse du discours". Langages (1969) 13.8-45. German translation by Peter Eisenberg, "Textanalyse". Beschreibungsmethoden des amerikanischen Strakturalismus ed. by Elisabeth Bense, Peter Eisenberg & Hartmut Haberland, 261-298. München: Max Hueber. [Presents a method for the analysis of connected speech or writing.]
Harris, Zellig S. 1952c. "Discourse Analysis: A sample text". Language 28:4.474-494. (Repr. in 1970a, pp. 349–379.)
Harris, Zellig S. (1954.) "Distributional Structure". Word 10:2/3.146-162. (Also in Linguistics Today: Published on the occasion of the Columbia University Bicentennial ed. by Andre Martinet & Uriel Weinreich, 26-42. New York: Linguistic Circle of New York, 1954. Repr. in The Structure of Language: Readings in the philosophy of language ed. by Jerry A[lan] Fodor & Jerrold J[acob] Katz, 33-49. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1964, and also in Harris 1970.775-794, and 1981.3-22.) French translation "La structure distributionnelle,". Analyse distributionnelle et structurale ed. by Jean Dubois & Françoise Dubois-Charlier (=Langages, No.20), 14-34. Paris: Didier / Larousse.
Harris, Zellig S. (1963.) Discourse Analysis Reprints. (= Papers on Formal Linguistics, 2.) The Hague: Mouton, 73 pp. [Combines Transformations and Discourse Analysis Papers 3a, 3b, and 3c. 1957, Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania. ]
Harris, Zellig S. (1968.) Mathematical Structures of Language. (=Interscience Tracts in Pure and Applied Mathematics, 21.) New York: Interscience Publishers John Wiley & Sons). French translation Structures mathématiques du langage. Transl. by Catherine Fuchs. (=Monographies de Linguistique mathématique, 3.) Paris: Dunod, 248 pp.
Harris, Zellig S. (1970.) Papers in Structural and Transformational Linguistics. Dordrecht/ Holland: D. Reidel., x, 850 pp. [Collection of 37 papers originally published 1940-1969.]
Harris, Zellig S. (1981.) Papers on Syntax. Ed. by Henry Hiż. (=Synthese Language Library, 14.) Dordrecht/Holland: D. Reidel, vii, 479 pp.]
Harris, Zellig S. (1982.) "Discourse and Sublanguage". Sublanguage: Studies of language in restricted semantic domains ed. by Richard Kittredge & John Lehrberger, 231-236. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Harris, Zellig S. (1985.) "On Grammars of Science". Linguistics and Philosophy: Essays in honor of Rulon S. Wells ed. by Adam Makkai & Alan K. Melby (=Current Issues in Linguistic Theory, 42), 139-148. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Harris, Zellig S. (1988a) Language and Information. (=Bampton Lectures in America, 28.) New York: Columbia University Press, ix, 120 pp.
Harris, Zellig S. 1988b. (Together with Paul Mattick, Jr.) "Scientific Sublanguages and the Prospects for a Global Language of Science". Annals of the American Association of Philosophy and Social Sciences No.495.73-83.
Harris, Zellig S. (1989.) (Together with Michael Gottfried, Thomas Ryckman, Paul Mattick, Jr., Anne Daladier, Tzvee N. Harris & Suzanna Harris.) The Form of Information in Science: Analysis of an immunology sublanguage. Preface by Hilary Putnam. (=Boston Studies in the Philosophy of, Science, 104.) Dordrecht/Holland & Boston: Kluwer Academic Publishers, xvii, 590 pp.
Harris, Zellig S. (1991.) A Theory of Language and Information: A mathematical approach. Oxford & New York: Clarendon Press, xii, 428 pp.; illustr.
Jaworski, A. and Coupland, N. (eds). (1999). The Discourse Reader. London: Routledge.
Johnstone, B. (2002). Discourse analysis. Oxford: Blackwell.
Keller, R. (2011). The Sociology of Knowledge Approach to Discourse (SKAD). In: Human Studies 34 (1), 43-65.
Keller, R. (2013). Doing Discourse Research. An Introduction for Social Scientists. London: Sage
Kittredge, Richard & John Lehrberger. (1982.) Sublanguage: Studies of language in restricted semantic domains. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Loriot, James and Barbara E. Hollenbach. 1970. "Shipibo paragraph structure." Foundations of Language 6: 43-66. The seminal work reported as having been admitted by Longacre and Pike. See link below from Longacre's student Daniel L. Everett.
Longacre, R.E. (1996). The grammar of discourse. New York: Plenum Press.
Miscoiu, S., Craciun O., Colopelnic, N. (2008). Radicalism, Populism, Interventionism. Three Approaches Based on Discourse Theory. Cluj-Napoca: Efes.
Renkema, J. (2004). Introduction to discourse studies. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Sager, Naomi & Ngô Thanh Nhàn. (2002.) "The computability of strings, transformations, and sublanguage". The Legacy of Zellig Harris: Language and information into the 21st Century, Vol. 2: Computability of language and computer applications, ed. by Bruce Nevin, John Benjamins, pp. 79–120.
Schiffrin, D., Deborah Tannen, & Hamilton, H. E. (eds.). (2001). Handbook of Discourse Analysis. Oxford: Blackwell.
Stubbs, M. (1983). Discourse Analysis: The sociolinguistic analysis of natural language. Oxford: Blackwell
Teun A. van Dijk, (ed). (1997). Discourse Studies. 2 vols. London: Sage.
Potter, J, Wetherall, M. (1987). Discourse and Social Psychology: Beyond attitudes and behaviour. London: SAGE.
Underhill, James W. (2011). Creating Worldviews: metaphor, ideology & language, Edinburgh UP.
Underhill, James W. (2012). Ethnolinguistics & Cultural Concepts: truth, love, hate & war, Cambridge UP.
External links
http://www.discourseanalysis.net sign up for the international and interdisciplinary portal in discourse analysis: conferences, publications, people...
Daniel L. Everett, statement concerning James Loriot, p. 9
The Discourse Attributes Analysis Program and Measures of the Referential Process.
Linguistic Society of America: Discourse Analysis, by Deborah Tannen
Discourse Analysis by Z. Harris
Open Discourse is a technical term used in discourse analysis and Sociolinguistics and is commonly contrasted with Closed Discourse. The concept of open and closed discourse is associated with the overlay of open and closed discourse communities and open and closed communication events. Keys to determining whether a discourse is open or closed include access to information, equity of access, open access, quality of discourse and mechanisms and modalities of discourse control: overt, covert, implicit and incidental. As a conceptual filter and cultural construct, ideology is a function and mechanism of discourse control. Channel and signal of a communication event and register of communication together control discourse and therefore, determine the degree of social inclusion and social exclusion and, by extension, the relative efficiency of that communication event. Open and closed discourse operate along a continuum where absolute closure and complete openness are theoretically untenable due to noise in the channel. The nature of the channel, signal, code, replicability, recording, transmissibility, cataloguing, recall or other variable of a communication event and its information control and context of transmission-as-event, impact its relative position along the continuum between open and closed discourse. In all cases, open discourse is assumed to be sustained discourse.
Van Dijk (c.2003: p. 357) holds that:

"Although most discourse control is contextual or global, even local details of meaning, form, or style may be controlled, e.g. the details of an answer in class or court, or choice of lexical items or jargon in courtrooms, classrooms or newsrooms (Martin Rojo 1994).


Internet, weblogging and social media
In regards to the Internet as cultural artifact and information as complex adaptive system with emergent properties of open discourse such as weblogs and social media, Boyd (February 2009) holds that:

"The Web is the most important and valuable human artifact ever created. And, it is not owned by any single group, government, company, or person. It is not patented, no one is in charge, and we have no idea whatsoever as to how much we have invested in it, or even how much it costs us to keep it running.... The Web – and in particular the rise of the so-called blogosphere – has led to a resurgence of open public discourse that is unparalleled since the emergence of independent newspapers and pamphleteers at the outset of the Industrial revolution. The Web has grown from a handful of websites to millions of individuals and organizations publishing on every conceivable topic from every imaginable perspective."

Open discourse as open-endedness: text and context as living document
Open discourse as living document may also be understood as the open-endedness in both a communication event and the inability to collapse a communication event into definitives, the unequivocal import of a cultural artifact and the associated inability to resolve ambiguity due to noise and ever-changing context and audience, as Graham (2000: p. 5) further states:

...I understand the play on multiplicity of interpretation and open‐endedness that ambiguity signifies however, the term ambiguous is itself ambiguous – it not only means “open to various interpretations” but also “of doubtful and uncertain nature; difficult to understand” and “lacking clearness or definiteness, obscure” (Macquarie Essential Dictionary, 1999: 23).

Medicine, scientific publishing and pharmacology
Dayton (2006) frames the transition from open access to open discourse in the Internet discourse community in regards to the parameters of scientific publishing thus:

"The [I]nternet is expanding the realm of scientific publishing to include free and open public debate of published papers. Journals are beginning to support web posting of comments on their published articles and independent organizations are providing centralized web sites for posting comments about any published article. The trend promises to give one and all access to read and contribute to cutting edge scientific criticism and debate." NB: proper noun of 'Internet' repaired from the error 'internet'.

Urban planning and public discourse
Ter Borg and Dijking (1995) explore discourse control in relation to urban planning, urban development, public participation and stakeholder engagement in their analysis of two case studies.
Pedagogical discourse
Dawson & Taylor (1998) have documented experiential learnings of the logistics of open and critical discourse in the discourse community of the science classroom.
In framing the relationship between the discourse community of a classroom and therefore pedagogical discourse throughout all media and associating open discourse to a democratic ideology Celce-Murcia & Olshtain (2000: p. 11) hold that:

"...it is important that teachers understand what critical discourse analysis is and that they are at the very least sensitized to the potentially discriminatory and demeaning discourse that may arise in the classroom and in teaching materials and be prepared to deal with it constructively (i.e., to use such instances of discourse as opportunities for discussions and activities that can make the language classroom a more democratic and open discourse community)."

Notes
^ Van Dijk, Teun A. (c2003). "Critical Discourse Analysis." Cited in: Schiffrin, Deborah; Tannen, Deborah; Hamilton, Heidi Ehernberger (2003). The handbook of discourse analysis. Volume 18 of Blackwell handbooks in linguistics. Wiley-Blackwell. ISBN 0-631-20596-9, ISBN 978-0-631-20596-8. Source: [1] (accessed: Monday April 12, 2010), p.357
^ Boyd, Stowe (February 2009). "Open Social Discourse and Web Culture." We Magazine. Source: [2] (accessed: Monday April 12, 2010)
^ Graham, Linda J.(2005). "Discourse analysis and the critical use of Foucault." Queensland University of Technology. Paper presented at Australian Association for Research in Education; 2005 Annual Conference, Sydney: 27th November – 1st December. Source: [3] (accessed: Monday April 12, 2010), p.5
^ Dayton, Andrew (2006). "Beyond open access: open discourse, the next great equalizer." Retrovirology. Source: [4] (accessed: Monday April 12, 2010)
^ Elisabeth ter Borg & Gertjan Dijkink (1995). "Naturalising Choices and Neutralising Voices? Discourse on Urban Development in Two Cities." Urban Studies, Vol. 32, No. 1, pp.49-67.
^ Dawson, Vaille M. & Taylor, Peter C. (1998). "Establishing open and critical discourses in the science classroom: Reflecting on initial difficulties." Research in Science Education. Netherlands: Springer. ISSN 0157-244X (Print) 1573-1898 (Online). Volume 28, Number 3 / September, 1998. Source: [5] (accessed: Monday April 12, 2010)
^ Celce-Murcia, Marianne & Olshtain, Elite (2000). Discourse and context in language teaching: a guide for language teachers. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-64055-5, ISBN 978-0-521-64055-8. Source: [6] (accessed: Monday April 12, 2010), p.11
See also
Critical Discourse Analysis
Discourse
Dialogical analysis
Pragmatics
Rhetoric
Sociolinguistics
Stylistics (linguistics)
Analysis of subjective logics
Semiotics
In discourse analysis, applied linguistics and related fields appraisal refers to the ways that writers or speakers express approval or disapproval for things or ideas. Language users build relationships with their interlocutors by expressing such positions. This notion is closely related to the idea of stance in linguistics and anthropology.
J.R. Martin and P.R.R. White's approach to appraisal in systemic functional linguistics regionalised the concept into three interacting domains: 'attitude', 'engagement' and 'graduation'.
References

Cohesion is the grammatical and lexical linking within a text or sentence that holds a text together and gives it meaning. It is related to the broader concept of coherence.
There are two main types of cohesion: grammatical cohesion which is based on structural content, and lexical cohesion which is based on lexical content and background knowledge. A cohesive text is created in many different ways. In Cohesion in English, M.A.K. Halliday and Ruqaiya Hasan identify five general categories of cohesive devices that create coherence in texts: reference, ellipsis, substitution, lexical cohesion and conjunction.

Conjunction and transitions
A conjunction sets up a relationship between two clauses. The most basic but least cohesive is the conjunction and. Transitions are conjunctions that add cohesion to text and include then, however, in fact, and consequently. Conjunctions can also be implicit and deduced from correctly interpreting the text.
Referencing
There are two referential devices that can create cohesion:
Anaphoric reference occurs when the writer refers back to someone or something that has been previously identified, to avoid repetition. Some examples: replacing "the taxi driver" with the pronoun "he" or "two girls" with "they". Another example can be found in formulaic sequences such as "as stated previously" or "the aforementioned".
Cataphoric reference is the opposite of anaphora: a reference forward as opposed to backward in the discourse. Something is introduced in the abstract before it is identified. For example: "Here he comes, our award-winning host... it's John Doe!" Cataphoric references can also be found in written text.
There is one more referential device, which cannot create cohesion:
Exophoric reference is used to describe generics or abstracts without ever identifying them (in contrast to anaphora and cataphora, which do identify the entity and thus are forms of endophora): e.g. rather than introduce a concept, the writer refers to it by a generic word such as "everything". The prefix "exo" means "outside", and the persons or events referred to in this manner will never be identified by the writer. Halliday and Hasan considered exophoric reference as not cohesive, since it does not tie two elements together into in text.
Ellipsis
Ellipsis is another cohesive device. It happens when, after a more specific mention, words are omitted when the phrase needs to be repeated.
A simple conversational example:
(A) Where are you going?
(B) To dance.
The full form of B's reply would be: "I am going to dance".
A simple written example: The younger child was very outgoing, the older much more reserved.
The omitted words from the second clause are "child" and "was".
Substitution
A word is not omitted, as in ellipsis, but is substituted for another, more general word. For example, "Which ice-cream would you like?" – "I would like the pink one", where "one" is used instead of repeating "ice-cream." This works in a similar way to pronouns, which replace the noun. For example, "ice-cream" is a noun, and its pronoun could be "it", as in, "I dropped the ice-cream because it was dirty."
Grammatical cohesion
In linguistics, grammar refers to the logical and structural rules that govern the composition of clauses, phrases, and words in any given natural language. The term refers also to the study of such rules, and this field includes morphology and syntax, often complemented by phonetics, phonology, semantics, and pragmatics.
Lexical cohesion
Lexical cohesion refers to the way in which related words are chosen to link elements of a text. There are two forms: repetition and collocation. Repetition uses the same word, or synonyms, antonyms, etc. For example, "Which dress are you going to wear?" – "I will wear my green frock," uses the synonyms "dress" and "frock" for lexical cohesion. Collocation uses related words that typically go together or tend to repeat the same meaning. An example is the phrase "once upon a time".
See also
Coherence (linguistics)
M.A.K. Halliday
Systemic functional linguistics
Sources

Further reading
A Bibliography of Coherence and Cohesion by Wolfram Bublitz at Universität AugsburgA collapsing sequence occurs in human speech when utterance pairs between speakers have some unspoken thought occurring between them that may make the latter phrase, out of context, seem to have no logical connection to the former; there is, however, an implication that logical thought has occurred between the two phrases, so that the latter phrase will make sense based upon an assumption of its relation to the former.
Examples
Customer: What's chocolate filbert?
Clerk: We don't have any.
The clerk's reply is in response to what he knows will come next in the discourse. If the clerk had proceeded to explain what chocolate filbert is, then it is possible that the customer would have asked for some. By explaining what the product is, the clerk would have tacitly implied that he had some to sell. Describing a product in a selling situation is often an implication that it is available. A waiter, for example, would not launch into a detailed description of a particular dish that a customer is inquiring about, only to end the discourse by then informing the customer that the dish is not available.
Another common collapsing sequence is illustrated below:
A. Do you smoke? B. I left them in my other jacket.
This type of collapsing sequence speeds up social interaction by averting unnecessary explanations.
Collapsing sequences can be used in other situations as well, such as when someone joins a discussion already in progress:
Hi, John. We were just talking about nursery schools.
In the phrasing of this response, the speaker is either warning John not join the group, or is giving him orientation so that he can understand the context of the discussion and participate.
See also
Cooperative principle
References
Chaika, Elaine. Language: The Social Mirror. Rowley, Massachusetts: Newbury House, 1982 (pp. 85–86).
Context is a notion used in the language sciences (linguistics, sociolinguistics, systemic functional linguistics, discourse analysis, pragmatics, semiotics, etc.) in two different ways, namely as
verbal context
social context

§Verbal context
Verbal context refers to the text or speech surrounding an expression (word, sentence, or speech act). Verbal context influences the way an expression is understood; hence the norm of not citing people out of context. Since much contemporary linguistics takes texts, discourses, or conversations as the object of analysis, the modern study of verbal context takes place in terms of the analysis of discourse structures and their mutual relationships, for instance the coherence relation between sentences.

§Social context
Traditionally, in sociolinguistics, social contexts were defined in terms of objective social variables, such as those of class, gender, age or race. More recently, social contexts tend to be defined in terms of the social identity being construed and displayed in text and talk by language users. Influenced by space.
§Multidisciplinary theory
In his new multidisciplinary theory of context, Teun A. van Dijk rejects objectivist concepts of social context and shows that relevant properties of social situations can only influence language use as subjective definitions of the situation by the participants, as represented and ongoingly updated in specific mental models of language users: context models.
§Influence
The influence of context parameters on language use or discourse is usually studied in terms of language variation, style or register (see Stylistics). The basic assumption here is that language users adapt the properties of their language use (such as intonation, lexical choice, syntax, and other aspects of formulation) to the current communicative situation. In this sense, language use or discourse may be called more or less 'appropriate' in a given context. It is the language or derigitave terms surrounding set paragraph, novel or article.
§Context variables
A context has physical and communicative dimensions such as; time, space, names, signs and symbols. Manipulation of any of these dimensions results in a changed environment of interpretation.
§References
De Fina, A., Schiffrin, D., & Bamberg, M. (Eds.). (2006). Discourse and identity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Duranti, A., & Goodwin, C. (Eds.). (1992). Rethinking context. Language as an interactive phenomenon. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Eckert, P., & Rickford, J. R. (2001). Style and sociolinguistic variation. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Fetzer, A. (2004). Recontextualizing context. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Ghadessy, M. (Ed.). (1999). Text and context in functional linguistics. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Givón, Talmy. (2005). Context as Other Minds. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
William Labov (1972). Sociolinguistic patterns. Philadelphia, PA: University of Pennsylvania Press.
Leckie-Tarry, H. (1995). Language & context. A functional linguistic theory of register. London: Pinter Publishers.
Stalnaker, Robert Culp (1999). Context and content. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Contextualization in sociolinguistics refers to the use of language and discourse to signal relevant aspects of an interactional or communicative situation. Basil Bernstein (1990 [1971]) uses (re)contextualization when referring to the reformulation of scientific knowledge in pedagogical contexts, for instance in textbooks. John Gumperz (1982a, 1982b) and others in interactional sociolinguistics study subtle "contextualization cues", for instance intonation, that allow language users to infer contextually adequate meanings of discourse (see also Eerdmans, Prevignano & Thibault, 2002).
Gumperz (1982a) suggests that in the following interaction the linguistic style used by the interviewer signals a context different from that expected by the husband. The interviewer, an African-American graduate student in educational psychology, has been sent to interview a woman at her home in a low-income neighborhood. The interviewer rings the door bell and the woman's husband opens the door.
Husband: So y're gonna check out ma old lady, hah?
Interviewer: Ah, no. I only came to get some information. They called from the office.
The husband addresses the interviewer in an informal style, marking their interaction as friendly. When the interviewer responds in a more formal style, the context becomes more formal. As a result, the interviewer reports that the interview was "stiff" (Gumperz 1982a: 133).
References
Bernstein, B. (1990). Class, codes and control. Vol. IV. The structuring of pedagogic discourse. London: Routledge.
Eerdmans, S., Prevignano, C., & Thibault, P. (2002). Language and interaction. Discussions with J. J. Gumperz. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Gumperz, J. J. (1982a). Discourse strategies. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Gumperz, J. J. (Ed.). (1982b). Language and social identity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Contrastive analysis is the systematic study of a pair of languages with a view to identifying their structural differences and similarities. Historically it has been used to establish language genealogies.

Contrastive Analysis and Second Language Acquisition
Contrastive Analysis was used extensively in the field of Second Language Acquisition (SLA) in the 1960s and early 1970s, as a method of explaining why some features of a target language were more difficult to acquire than others. According to the behaviourist theories prevailing at the time, language learning was a question of habit formation, and this could be reinforced or impeded by existing habits. Therefore, the difficulty in mastering certain structures in a second language (L2) depended on the difference between the learners' mother language (L1) and the language they were trying to learn.
History
The theoretical foundations for what became known as the Contrastive Analysis Hypothesis were formulated in Robert Lado's Linguistics Across Cultures (1957). In this book, Lado claimed that "those elements which are similar to [the learner's] native language will be simple for him, and those elements that are different will be difficult". While this was not a novel suggestion, Lado was the first to provide a comprehensive theoretical treatment and to suggest a systematic set of technical procedures for the contrastive study of languages. This involved describing the languages (using structuralist linguistics), comparing them and predicting learning difficulties.
During the 1960s, there was a widespread enthusiasm with this technique, manifested in the contrastive descriptions of several European languages, many of which were sponsored by the Center for Applied Linguistics in Washington, DC. It was expected that once the areas of potential difficulty had been mapped out through Contrastive Analysis, it would be possible to design language courses more efficiently. Contrastive Analysis, along with Behaviourism and Structuralism exerted a profound effect on SLA curriculum design and language teacher education, and provided the theoretical pillars of Audio-Lingual Method.
Criticism
In its strongest formulation, the Contrastive Analysis Hypothesis claimed that all the errors made in learning the L2 could be attributed to 'interference' by the L1. However, this claim could not be sustained by empirical evidence that was accumulated in the mid- and late 1970s. It was soon pointed out that many errors predicted by Contrastive Analysis were inexplicably not observed in learners' language. Even more confusingly, some uniform errors were made by learners irrespective of their L1. It thus became clear that Contrastive Analysis could not predict all learning difficulties, but was certainly useful in the retrospective explanation of errors.
See also
Comparative linguistics
Contrastive linguistics
References
Connor, Ulla M. (1996), Contrastive Rhetoric: Cross-cultural aspects of second-language writing. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Ellis, R. 1994. The Study of Second Language Acquisition Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-437189-1
Lado, R. (1957). Linguistics across cultures: Applied linguistics for language teachers. University of Michigan Press: Ann Arbor.
Stern, H.H. 1983. Fundamental Concepts of Language Teaching Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-437065-8
Contrastive rhetoric is the study of how a person's first language and culture influence his or her writing in a second language. The term was first coined by the American applied linguist Robert Kaplan in 1966 and widely expanded from 1996 to today by Finnish-born, US-based applied linguist Ulla Connor, among others. Since its inception the area of study has had a significant impact on the teaching of writing in both English as a second language (ESL) and English as a foreign language (EFL) classes, bringing attention to cultural and linguistic differences in the writing of English L2 students. This attention to writing was especially welcomed in the area of ESL instruction, as an emphasis on spoken-language skills had previously dominated ESL contexts in the United States.

Trends
Since 1966, when Kaplan’s original work on contrastive rhetoric appeared, and 1996, when Ulla Connor’s book on contrastive rhetoric reinvigorated interest in the area, new trends have appeared in research approaches and methods. The change has been affected by three major developments—the acknowledgment of more genres with specific textual requirements, increased awareness of the social contexts of writing, and the need for an alternative conceptual framework that takes a more critical perspective of contrastive rhetoric—have motivated scholars of contrastive rhetoric to adjust and supplement research approaches in their work.
EAP and other genres
First, there was a marked increase in the types of written texts considered the purview of second language writing around the world. English for Academic Purposes (EAP) classes teach other types of writing besides the student essay required in college classes. Other important genres are the academic research article, research report, and grant proposal. Writing for professional purposes, such as business, is also now considered a legitimate type of second language writing and worthy of research and teaching.
Socially situated writing
Second, in addition to the expansion of the genre, textual analysis has moved contrastive rhetoric to emphasize the social situation of writing. Today, writing is increasingly regarded as being socially situated; each situation may entail special consideration to audience, purposes, level of perfection, and correspondingly may require varying amounts of revision, collaboration, and attention to detail. The expectations and norms of discourse communities or communities of practice (cultural and disciplinary) may shape these situational expectations and practices. This is where contrastive rhetoric overlaps with social constructionism, which sees approaches to textual meaning as dynamic, socio-cognitive activities. Instead of analyzing what texts "mean," the interest is to understand how they construct meaning. Bazerman and Prior (2004, p. 6) pose three questions to guide the analysis of writing:
“What does the text talk about?”
“How do texts influence audiences?”
“How do texts come into being?”
Critical contrastive rhetoric
Third, in response to criticisms that challenge traditional contrastive rhetoric, an alternative conceptual framework known as critical contrastive rhetoric has been established that maintains a critical understanding of the politics of cultural difference. Critical contrastive rhetoric explores issues such as critical thinking in teaching situations that challenge essentialism. It takes into consideration poststructuralist, postcolonial, and postmodern critiques of language and culture, in order to reconceptualize cultural difference in rhetoric. In practice, it "affirms multiplicity of languages, rhetorical forms, and students’ identities, while problematizing the discursive construction of rhetoric and identities, and thus allowing writing teachers to recognize the complex web of rhetoric, culture, power, and discourse in responding to student writing."
Questions of relevance
In the early 2000s, some postmodern and critical pedagogy writers in the second language writing field, began referring to contrastive rhetoric as if it had been frozen in space. Over the years, the term contrastive rhetoric had started to gain a negative connotation, even negatively affecting writing in a second language. Understood by many as Kaplan’s original work, contrastive rhetoric was increasingly characterized as static, and linked to contrastive analysis, a movement associated with structural linguistics and behavioralism. Many of the contributions made to contrastive rhetoric from the late 1960s to the early 1990s have been ignored. In a 2002 article, Connor attempted to address these criticisms and to offer new directions for a viable contrastive rhetoric. In addressing the critiques, she aimed to draw attention to the broad scope of contrastive rhetoric and determined that a new term would better encompass the essence of contrastive rhetoric in its current state. To distinguish between the often-quoted “static” model and the new advances that have been made, Connor suggests it may be useful to begin using the term intercultural rhetoric instead of contrastive rhetoric to refer to the current models of cross-cultural research.
According to Connor, the term intercultural rhetoric better describes the broadening trends of writing across languages and cultures. It preserves the traditional approaches that use textual analysis, genre analysis, and corpus analysis, yet also introduces ethnographic approaches that examine language in interactions. Furthermore, it connotes the analysis of texts that allows for dynamic definitions of culture and the inclusion of smaller cultures (e.g., disciplinary, classroom) in the analysis.
While Connor continues to use the term intercultural rhetoric, scholars outside the United States looking at specific language differences (e.g. English and Japanese and English and Spanish,) have continued to use the term contrastive rhetoric.
References

See also
Applied linguistics
Contrastive linguistics
Second language acquisition
Kishōtenketsu
Conversation analysis (commonly abbreviated as CA) is an approach to the study of social interaction, embracing both verbal and non-verbal conduct, in situations of everyday life. As its name implies, CA began with a focus on casual conversation, but its methods were subsequently adapted to embrace more task- and institution-centered interactions, such as those occurring in doctors' offices, courts, law enforcement, helplines, educational settings, and the mass media. As a consequence, the term 'conversation analysis' has become something of a misnomer, but it has continued as a term for a distinctive and successful approach to the analysis of social interaction.

History
Inspired by Harold Garfinkel's ethnomethodology and Erving Goffman's conception of the interaction order, CA was developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s principally by the sociologist Harvey Sacks and his close associates Emanuel Schegloff and Gail Jefferson. Today CA is an established method used in sociology, anthropology, linguistics, speech-communication and psychology. It is particularly influential in interactional sociolinguistics, discourse analysis and discursive psychology.
Method
As in all research, conversational analysis begins by setting up a research problem. The data collected for CA is in the form of video or audio recorded conversations. The data is collected with or without researchers' involvement, often simply by adding a video camera to the room where the conversation takes place (e.g. medical doctors consultation with a patient). From the audio or video recording the researchers construct a detailed transcription (ideally with no details left out). After transcription, the researchers perform inductive data-driven analysis aiming to find recurring patterns of interaction. Based on the analysis, the researchers develop a rule or model to explain the occurrence of the patterns.
Basic structures
Turn-taking organization

In the absence of formal agendas, the set of practices through which turns are allocated in conversation has been the subject of study in its own right. The Turn-taking model for conversation was arrived at inductively through empirical investigation of field recordings of conversations and fitted to the observationally derived facts as that in conversation, participants are constrained to issue their utterances in allocated turns, and enlist various mechanisms to obtain them. Initial interest was in very simple forms that take place in two-party conversations where sentence completion, or pause, might be enough to allocate the next turn to the co-present party in the manner that has been discussed under the rubric of 'adjacency pairs'.
In multi-party conversations the mechanisms were found to be more complicated where 'current speaker selects next' is a possibility, and how frequently individual utterances are tailored for their turn 'sequential implicativeness'. The possibility of obtaining not only the next turn, but a series of turns (required for example in telling a joke or story) is documented in analyses of announcements and story prefaces. A certain economy in conversation could be located in the process whereby turns are allocated. That economy was directed at the 'turn commodity', but also in myriad other instances for example person identifiers and locators where minimal forms are utilized in an economic fashion.
Other collections of turn allocation mechanisms include use of 'repeats', the elision of lexical forms, the use of temporal regulators in turns including chuckles, 'uhm', ‘yuh know’, and ‘right’, the use of speech particles like ‘uh’, and ‘oh’, and other specifically short-syllabic devices that are consonant-prefaced like ‘tih’.
According to CA, the turn-taking system consists of two distinct components: the allocational mechanism which is responsible for distributing a turn (in any case), and the lexical components that parties utilize in filling that turn while remaining concurrently sequentially implicative to deal with the contigency in the process that will result in a subsequent turn allocation.
Turn constructional component
The turn constructional component describes basic units out of which turns are fashioned. These basic units are known as Turn construction unit or TCUs. Unit types include: lexical, clausal, phrasal, and sentential.
Turn allocational component
The turn allocational component describes how participants organize their interaction by distributing turns to speakers.
Sequence organization
This focuses on how actions are ordered in conversation.
Adjacency pairs
Talk tends to occur in responsive pairs; however, the pairs may be split over a sequence of turns. Adjacency pairs divide utterance types into 'first pair parts' and 'second pair parts' to form a 'pair type'. There are lots of examples of adjacency pairs including Questions-Answers, Offer-Acceptance/Refusal and Compliment-Response. (Schegloff & Sacks:1973) 
Pre-sequences
A pair of turns may be understood as preliminary to the main course of action. For example, "Guess what!"/"What?" as preliminary to an announcement of some sort, or "What are you doing?"/"Nothing" as preliminary to an invitation or a request.
Preference organization
CA may reveal structural (i.e. practice-underwritten) preferences in conversation for some types of actions (within sequences of action) over other actions. For example, responsive actions which agree with, or accept, positions taken by a first action tend to be performed more straightforwardly and faster than actions that disagree with, or decline, those positions (Pomerantz 1984; Davidson 1984). One consequence of this is that agreement and acceptance are promoted over their alternatives, and are more likely to be the outcome of the sequence. Pre-sequences are also a component of preference organization and contribute to this outcome (Schegloff 2007).
Repair
Repair organization describes how parties in conversation deal with problems in speaking, hearing, or understanding. Repair segments are classified by who initiates repair (self or other), by who resolves the problem (self or other), and by how it unfolds within a turn or a sequence of turns. The organisation of repair is also a self-righting mechanism in social interaction (Schegloff, Jefferson, and Sacks 1977). Participants in conversation seek to correct the trouble source by initiating self repair and a preference for self repair, the speaker of the trouble source, over other repair (Schegloff, Jefferson, and Sacks 1977). Self repair initiations can be placed in three locations in relation to the trouble source, in a first turn, a transition space or in a third turn (Schegloff, Jefferson, and Sacks 1977). Self initiators of repair in the same turn use different non-lexical speech perturbations, including: cut-offs, sound stretches and "uh's" (Schegloff, Jefferson, and Sacks 1977).
Action formation
This focuses on the description of the practices by which turns at talk are composed and positioned so as to realize one or another actions.
Contrasts to other theories
In contrast to the research inspired by Noam Chomsky, which is based on a distinction between competence and performance and dismisses the particulars of actual speech as a degraded form of idealized competence, Conversation Analysis studies naturally-occurring talk and shows that spoken interaction is systematically orderly in all its facets (cf. Sacks in Atkinson and Heritage 1984: 21-27). In contrast to the theory developed by John Gumperz, CA maintains it is possible to analyze talk-in-interaction by examining its recordings alone (audio for telephone, video for copresent interaction). CA researchers do not believe that the researcher needs to consult with the talk participants or members of their speech community.
It is distinct from discourse analysis in focus and method. (i) Its focus is squarely on processes involved in social interaction and does not include written texts or larger sociocultural phenomena (for example, 'discourses' in the Foucauldian sense). (ii) Its method, following Garfinkel and Goffman's initiatives, is aimed at determining the methods and resources that the interactional participants use and rely on to produce interactional contributions and make sense of the contributions of others. Thus CA is neither designed for, nor aimed at, examining the production of interaction from a perspective that is external to the participants' own reasoning and understanding about their circumstances and communication. Rather the aim is to model the resources and methods by which those understandings are produced.
Application in other fields
In recent years, CA has been employed by researchers in other fields, such as feminism and feminist linguistics, or used in complement with other theories, such as Membership Categorization Analysis (MCA). MCA was influenced by the work on Harvey Sacks and his work on Membership Categorization Device (MCD). Sacks argues that 'members’ categories comprise part of the central machinery of organization and developed the notion of MCD to explain how categories can be hearably linked together by native speakers of a culture. His example that is taken from a children's storybook (The baby cried. The mommy picked it up.) shows how "mommy" is interpreted as the mother of the baby by speakers of the same culture. In light of this, categories are inference rich – a great deal of knowledge members of a society have about the society is stored in terms of these categories. Stokoe further contends that members’ practical categorizations form part of ethnomethodology's description of the ongoing production and realization of ‘facts’ about social life and including members’ gendered reality analysis, thus making CA compatible with feminist studies.
Subject index of conversation analysis literature
The following is a list of important phenomena identified in the conversation analysis literature, followed by a brief definition and citations to articles that examine the named phenomenon either empirically or theoretically. Articles in which the term for the phenomenon is coined or which present the canonical treatment of the phenomenon are in bold, those that are otherwise centrally concerned with the phenomenon are in italics, and the rest are articles that otherwise aim to make a significant contribution to an understanding of the phenomenon.



Turn-taking 
A process by which interactants allocate the right or obligation to participate in an interactional activity. (Sacks, Schegloff, & Jefferson, 1974)
Repair 
The mechanisms through which certain "troubles" in interaction are dealt with. (Schegloff, Jefferson, & Sacks 1977)
Preference organization 
The ways through which different types of social actions ('preferred' vs. 'dispreferred') are carried out sequentially. (Pomerantz 1978, Pomerantz 1984)
See also
Aizuchi
Transcription
Notes

References
Atkinson, J. Maxwell and Heritage, John (eds) (1984). Structures of Social Action: Studies in Conversation Analysis, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Cameron, Deborah. (2001). Working with Spoken Discourse, London: SAGE Publications
Drew, Paul and Heritage, John. (1993). Talk at Work: Interaction in Institutional Settings. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Enfield, N. J. and Stivers, Tanya. (2007). Person Reference in Interaction: Linguistic, Cultural and Social Perspectives. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Heritage, John (1984). Garfinkel and Ethnomethodology, Cambridge: Polity Press.
Heritage, John and Steven E. Clayman (2010). Talk in Action: Interactions, Identities and Institutions. Boston: Wiley-Blackwell.
Hutchby, Ian and Wooffitt, Robin. (1988) Conversation Analysis. Polity Press.
Lerner, Gene H. (ed.) (2004) Conversation Analysis: studies from the first generation. Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing.
Levinson, Stephen C. (1983). Pragmatics. pp 284–370. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-29414-2.
Local, John. (2007). Phonetic Detail and the Organisation of Talk-in-Interaction. Proceedings of the XVIth International Congress of Phonetic Sciences. Saarbruecken, Germany: 16th ICPhS Organizing Committee.
Kelly, John and Local John (1989). Doing Phonology, Manchester: Manchester University Press.
Pain, Jean. (2008). Not Just Talking: Conversational Analysis and Psychotherapy. Karnac. ISBN 978-1-85575-689-2
Pomerantz, Anita (1984). Agreeing and disagreeing with assessments: Some features of preferred/dispreferred turn shapes. In J. M. Atkinson & J. Heritage (Eds.), Structures of Social Action: Studies in Conversation Analysis. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Psathas, George (1995): Conversation Analysis, Thousand Oaks: Sage
Sacks, Harvey. (1995). Lectures on Conversation. Blackwell Publishing. ISBN 1-55786-705-4.
Sacks, Harvey, Schegloff, Emanuel A., & Jefferson, Gail (1974). A simplest systematics for the organization of turn-taking for conversation. Language, 50, 696-735.
Schegloff, Emanuel A., Jefferson, G. & Sacks, H. (1977). The Preference for Self-Correction in the Organisation of Repair in Conversation. Language, 53, 361-382.
Schegloff, Emanuel A. (2007). Sequence Organization in Interaction: A Primer in Conversation Analysis, Volume 1, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Sidnell, Jack. (2010). Conversation Analysis: An Introduction, London: Wiley-Blackwell.
Sidnell, Jack and Tanya Stivers (2012) (eds.). Handbook of Conversation Analysis. Boston: Wiley-Blackwell.
Stivers, Tanya. (2007). Prescribing Under Pressure: Parent-Physician Conversations and Antibiotics (Oxford Studies in Sociolinguistics). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Ten Have, Paul (1999): Doing Conversation Analysis. A Practical Guide, Thousand Oaks: Sage.
Terasaki, Alene Kiku (1976). Pre-announcement Sequences in Conversation, Social Sciences Working Paper #99. School of Social Sciences, University of California, Irvine.
External links
An Introduction to Conversation Analysis (by Discourse and Rhetoric Group, Loughborough University)
Online bibliography of pre-1990 CA literature
Online bibliography of post-1989 CA literature
Online clearinghouse for the CA community
Corpus linguistics is the study of language as expressed in samples (corpora) of "real world" text. This method represents a digestive approach to deriving a set of abstract rules by which a natural language is governed or else relates to another language. Originally done by hand, corpora are now largely derived by an automated process.
Corpus linguistics adherents believe that reliable language analysis best occurs on field-collected samples, in natural contexts and with minimal experimental interference. Within corpus linguistics there are divergent views as to the value of corpus annotation, from John Sinclair advocating minimal annotation and allowing texts to 'speak for themselves', to others, such as the Survey of English Usage team (based in University College, London) advocating annotation as a path to greater linguistic understanding and rigour.

History
Some of the earliest efforts at grammatical description were based at least in part on corpora of particular religious or cultural significance. For example, Prātiśākhya literature described the sound patterns of Sanskrit as found in the Vedas, and Pāṇini's grammar of classical Sanskrit was based at least in part on analysis of that same corpus. Similarly, the early Arabic grammarians paid particular attention to the language of the Quran. In the Western European tradition, scholars prepared concordances to allow detailed study of the language of the Bible and other canonical texts.
A landmark in modern corpus linguistics was the publication by Henry Kucera and W. Nelson Francis of Computational Analysis of Present-Day American English in 1967, a work based on the analysis of the Brown Corpus, a carefully compiled selection of current American English, totalling about a million words drawn from a wide variety of sources. Kucera and Francis subjected it to a variety of computational analyses, from which they compiled a rich and variegated opus, combining elements of linguistics, language teaching, psychology, statistics, and sociology. A further key publication was Randolph Quirk's 'Towards a description of English Usage' (1960) in which he introduced The Survey of English Usage.
Shortly thereafter, Boston publisher Houghton-Mifflin approached Kucera to supply a million word, three-line citation base for its new American Heritage Dictionary, the first dictionary to be compiled using corpus linguistics. The AHD took the innovative step of combining prescriptive elements (how language should be used) with descriptive information (how it actually is used).
Other publishers followed suit. The British publisher Collins' COBUILD monolingual learner's dictionary, designed for users learning English as a foreign language, was compiled using the Bank of English. The Survey of English Usage Corpus was used in the development of one of the most important Corpus-based Grammars, the Comprehensive Grammar of English (Quirk et al. 1985).
The Brown Corpus has also spawned a number of similarly structured corpora: the LOB Corpus (1960s British English), Kolhapur (Indian English), Wellington (New Zealand English), Australian Corpus of English (Australian English), the Frown Corpus (early 1990s American English), and the FLOB Corpus (1990s British English). Other corpora represent many languages, varieties and modes, and include the International Corpus of English, and the British National Corpus, a 100 million word collection of a range of spoken and written texts, created in the 1990s by a consortium of publishers, universities (Oxford and Lancaster) and the British Library. For contemporary American English, work has stalled on the American National Corpus, but the 400+ million word Corpus of Contemporary American English (1990–present) is now available through a web interface.
The first computerized corpus of transcribed spoken language was constructed in 1971 by the Montreal French Project, containing one million words, which inspired Shana Poplack's much larger corpus of spoken French in the Ottawa-Hull area.
Besides these corpora of living languages, computerized corpora have also been made of collections of texts in ancient languages. An example is the Andersen-Forbes database of the Hebrew Bible, developed since the 1970s, in which every clause is parsed using graphs representing up to seven levels of syntax, and every segment tagged with seven fields of information. The Quranic Arabic Corpus is an annotated corpus for the Classical Arabic language of the Quran. This is a recent project with multiple layers of annotation including morphological segmentation, part-of-speech tagging, and syntactic analysis using dependency grammar.
Methods
Corpus Linguistics has generated a number of research methods, attempting to trace a path from data to theory. Wallis and Nelson (2001) first introduced what they called the 3A perspective: Annotation, Abstraction and Analysis.
Annotation consists of the application of a scheme to texts. Annotations may include structural markup, part-of-speech tagging, parsing, and numerous other representations.
Abstraction consists of the translation (mapping) of terms in the scheme to terms in a theoretically motivated model or dataset. Abstraction typically includes linguist-directed search but may include e.g., rule-learning for parsers.
Analysis consists of statistically probing, manipulating and generalising from the dataset. Analysis might include statistical evaluations, optimisation of rule-bases or knowledge discovery methods.
Most lexical corpora today are part-of-speech-tagged (POS-tagged). However even corpus linguists who work with 'unannotated plain text' inevitably apply some method to isolate salient terms. In such situations annotation and abstraction are combined in a lexical search.
The advantage of publishing an annotated corpus is that other users can then perform experiments on the corpus (through corpus managers). Linguists with other interests and differing perspectives than the originators' can exploit this work. By sharing data, corpus linguists are able to treat the corpus as a locus of linguistic debate, rather than as an exhaustive fount of knowledge.
Recent studies have suggested treatment outcome in adolescents with social anxiety disorder can also be assessed by analysing language by means of Corpus Linguistics 
See also

Concordance (KWIC)
Collocation
Collostructional analysis
Keyword (linguistics)
Linguistic Data Consortium
Machine translation
Natural Language Toolkit
Pattern grammar
Search engines: they access the "web corpus"
Semantic prosody
Text corpus
Translation memory
Treebank
Xaira: a general purpose XML aware open-source corpus analysis tool
Corpus of Contemporary American English
References

Journals
There are several international peer-reviewed journals dedicated to corpus linguistics, for example, Corpora, Corpus Linguistics and Linguistic Theory, ICAME Journal and the International Journal of Corpus Linguistics.
Book series
Book series in this field include Language and Computers, Studies in Corpus Linguistics and English Corpus Linguistics
Other
Biber, D., Conrad, S., Reppen R. Corpus Linguistics, Investigating Language Structure and Use, Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1998. ISBN 0-521-49957-7
McCarthy, D., and Sampson G. Corpus Linguistics: Readings in a Widening Discipline, Continuum, 2005. ISBN 0-8264-8803-X
Facchinetti, R. Theoretical Description and Practical Applications of Linguistic Corpora. Verona: QuiEdit, 2007 ISBN 978-88-89480-37-3
Facchinetti, R. (ed.) Corpus Linguistics 25 Years on. New York/Amsterdam: Rodopi, 2007 ISBN 978-90-420-2195-2
Facchinetti, R. and Rissanen M. (eds.) Corpus-based Studies of Diachronic English. Bern: Peter Lang, 2006 ISBN 3-03910-851-4
Lenders, W. Computational lexicography and corpus linguistics until ca. 1970/1980, in: Gouws, R. H., Heid, U., Schweickard, W., Wiegand, H. E. (eds.) Dictionaries - An International Encyclopedia of Lexicography. Supplementary Volume: Recent Developments with Focus on Electronic and Computational Lexicography. Berlin: De Gruyter Mouton, 2013 ISBN 978-3112146651
External links
Bookmarks for Corpus-based Linguists – very comprehensive site with categorized and annotated links to language corpora, software, references, etc.
Corpora discussion list
Freely-available, web-based corpora (100 million – 400 million words each): American (COCA, COHA), British (BNC), TIME, Spanish, Portuguese
Manuel Barbera's overview site
Przemek Kaszubski's list of references
AskOxford.com the composition and use of the Oxford Corpus
DMCBC.com
Datum Multilanguage Corpora Based on chinese free sample download
Corpus4u Community a Chinese online forum for corpus linguistics
McEnery and Wilson's Corpus Linguistics Page
Corpus Linguistics with R mailing list
Research and Development Unit for English Studies
Survey of English Usage
The Centre for Corpus Linguistics at Birmingham University
Gateway to Corpus Linguistics on the Internet: an annotated guide to corpus resources on the web
Biomedical corpora
Linguistic Data Consortium, a major distributor of corpora
Penn Parsed Corpora of Historical English
Corsis: (formerly Tenka Text) an open-source (GPLed) corpus analysis tool written in C#
ICECUP and Fuzzy Tree Fragments
Discussion group text mining
Google+ discussion community on corpus linguistics for language learning and teaching
Critical discourse analysis (CDA) is an interdisciplinary approach to the study of discourse that views language as a form of social practice. Scholars working in the tradition of CDA generally assume that (non-linguistic) social practice and linguistic practice constitute one another and focus on investigating how societal power relations are established and reinforced through language use.

Background
Critical discourse analysis emerged from 'critical linguistics' developed at the University of East Anglia in the 1970s, and the terms are now often interchangeable. Sociolinguistics was paying little attention to social hierarchy and power. CDA was first developed by the Lancaster school of linguists of which Norman Fairclough was the most prominent figure. Ruth Wodak has also made a remarkable contribution to this field of study.
In addition to linguistic theory, the approach draws from social theory — and contributions from Karl Marx, Antonio Gramsci, Louis Althusser, Jürgen Habermas, Michel Foucault and Pierre Bourdieu — in order to examine ideologies and power relations involved in discourse. Language connects with the social through being the primary domain of ideology, and through being both a site of, and a stake in, struggles for power. Ideology has been called the basis of the social representations of groups, and, in psychological versions of CDA developed by Teun A. van Dijk and Ruth Wodak, there is assumed to be a sociocognitive interface between social structures and discourse structures. The historical dimension in critical discourse studies also plays an important role.
Methodology
Although CDA is sometimes mistaken to represent a 'method' of discourse analysis, it is generally agreed upon that any explicit method in discourse studies, the humanities and social sciences may be used in CDA research, as long as it is able to adequately and relevantly produce insights into the way discourse reproduces (or resists) social and political inequality, power abuse or domination. That is, CDA does not limit its analysis to specific structures of text or talk, but systematically relates these to structures of the sociopolitical context.
Norman Fairclough developed a three-dimensional framework for studying discourse, where the aim is to map three separate forms of analysis onto one another: analysis of (spoken or written) language texts, analysis of discourse practice (processes of text production, distribution and consumption) and analysis of discursive events as instances of sociocultural practice. Particularly, he combines micro, meso and macro-level interpretation. At the micro-level, the analyst considers various aspects of textual/linguistic analysis, for examples syntactic analysis, use of metaphor and rhetorical devices . The meso-level or "level of discursive practice" involves studying issues of production and consumption, for instance, which institution produced a text, who is the target audience, etc. At the macro-level, the analyst is concerned with intertextual and interdiscursive elements and tries to take into account the broad, societal currents that are affecting the text being studied.
Notable academics
Notable writers include Norman Fairclough, Michał Krzyżanowski, Paul Chilton, Teun A. van Dijk, Ruth Wodak, Phil Graham, Theo Van Leeuwen, Siegfried Jäger, Christina Schäffner, James Paul Gee, Roger Fowler, Gunther Kress, Mary Talbot, Lilie Chouliaraki, Thomas Huckin, Hilary Janks, Veronika Koller and Bob Hodge.
See also

Bibliography
Notes

References
Caldas-Coulthard, Carmen Rosa, and Coulthard, Malcolm, (editors) (1996) Texts and Practices: Readings in Critical Discourse Analysis, London: Routledge.
Chouliaraki, Lilie & Norman Fairclough (1999). Discourse in Late Modernity: Rethinking Critical Discourse Analysis. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
Norman Fairclough (1995). Media Discourse. London: Edward Arnold.
Norman Fairclough (2003). Analysing Discourse: Textual Analysis for Social Research. London: Routledge.
Jaworski, Adam, & Coupland, Nikolas (Eds.) (2002). The Discourse Reader. New York: Routledge.
Lazar, Michelle (Ed.) (2005). Feminist Critical Discourse Analysis: Gender, Power and Ideology In Discourse. Basingstoke: Palgrave.
Rogers, Rebecca (2003). A Critical Discourse Analysis of Family Literacy Practices: Power in and Out of Print. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Rogers, Rebecca (Ed.) (2003). An Introduction to Critical Discourse Analysis in Education. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Talbot, Mary, Atkinson, Karen and Atkinson, David (2003). Language and Power in the Modern World. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
Toolan, Michael (Ed.) (2002). Critical Discourse Analysis: Critical Concepts in Linguistics (Vol I: Precursors and Inspirations). London: Routledge.
Toolan, Michael (Ed.) (2002). Critical Discourse Analysis: Critical Concepts in Linguistics (Vol II: Leading Advocates). London: Routledge.
Toolan, Michael (Ed.) (2002). Critical Discourse Analysis: Critical Concepts in Linguistics (Vol III: Concurrent Analyses and Critiques). London: Routledge.
Toolan, Michael (Ed.) (2002). Critical Discourse Analysis: Critical Concepts in Linguistics (Vol IV: Current Debates and New Directions). London: Routledge.
Teun A. Van Dijk. (1993). Elite discourse and racism. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.
Teun A. Van Dijk. (2005). Racism and discourse in Spain and Latin America. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Teun A. Van Dijk. (2008). Discourse and Power. Houndsmills: Palgrave.
Weiss, Gilbert & Wodak, Ruth (Eds.) (2003). Critical Discourse Analysis: Theory and Interdisciplinarity in Critical Discourse Analysis. London: Palgrave.
Young, Lynne & Harrison, Claire (Eds.) (2004). Systemic Functional Linguistics and Critical Discourse Analysis: Studies in Social Change. London: Continuum.
Anna Duszak, Juliane House, Łukasz Kumięga: Globalization, Discourse, Media: In a Critical Perspective / Globalisierung, Diskurse, Medien: eine kritische Perspektive. Warsaw University Press, r. 2010
Further reading
Henry Widdowson (1995). Review of Fairclough's Discourse and Social Change. Applied Linguistics 16(4): 510–516.
Norman Fairclough (1996). A Reply to Henry Widdowson's 'Discourse Analysis: A Critical View. Language & Literature 5(1): 49–56.
Henry Widdowson (1996). Reply to Fairclough: Discourse and Interpretation: Conjectures and Refutations. Language & Literature 5(1): 57–69.
Henry Widdowson (1998). "The Theory and Practice of Critical Discourse Analysis." Applied Linguistics 19/1: 136–151.
O'Halloran, Kieran A. (2003) Critical Discourse Analysis and Language Cognition. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
Beaugrande, Robert de (2001). "Interpreting the Discourse of H.G. Widdowson: A Corpus-Based Critical Discourse Analysis. Applied Linguistics 22(1): 104–121.
Toolan, Michael (1997). What Is Critical Discourse Analysis and Why Are People Saying Such Terrible Things About It? Language & Literature 6(2): 83–103.
Stubbs, Michael (1998). Whorf's Children: Critical Comments on Critical Discourse Analysis. In Ryan, A. & Wray, A. (Eds.), Evolving Models of Language: British Studies in Applied Linguistics 12, Clevedon: BAAL/Multilingual Matters.
Blommaert, Jan & Bulcaen, Chris (2000). Critical Discourse Analysis. Annual Review of Anthropology 29: 447–466.
Blommaert, Jan, Collins, James, Heller, Monica, Rampton, Ben, Slembrouck, Stef & Jef Verschueren. Discourse and Critique. Special issue of Critique of Anthropology 21/1: 5–107 and 21/2:117-183.
Slembrouck, Stef (2001). Explanation, Interpretation and Critique in the Analysis of Discourse. Critique of Anthropology, 21: 33–57.
Slembrouck, Stef (2005). Discourse, critique and ethnography: class-oriented coding in accounts of child protection. Language Sciences 27:619–650.
Threadgold, Terry (2003). Cultural Studies, Critical Theory and Critical Discourse Analysis: Histories, Remembering and Futures. Linguistik Online 14(2).
Tyrwhitt-Drake, Hugh (1999). Resisting the Discourse of Critical Discourse Analysis: Reopening a Hong Kong Case Study. Journal of Pragmatics 31: 1081–1088.
External links
Discourseanalysis.net Research portal and mailing list
Critical Approaches to Discourse Analysis Across Disciplines Research portal and conference
Discourses.org Website of Teun van Dijk
Norman Fairclough's profile page
Research groups associated with CDA
Language, Ideology and Power research group at Lancaster University
Newcastle Critical Discourse Group
Discourse and Rhetoric group at Loughborough University
Journals associated with CDA
Discourse & Society (from 1990)
Social Semiotics (from 1990)
Journal of Language and Politics (from 2002)
Critical Discourse Studies (from 2004)
Critical Approaches to Discourse Analysis Across Disciplines (peer-reviewed free online journal, from 2007)
A dialog act is a specialized speech act. For example, Question is a speech act, but Question_on_hotel is a dialog act. Dialog acts are different in different dialog systems. The number of speech acts are commonly recognized, and is stable around 10 or so, the number of dialog acts vary from systems to systems. In some systems, the number of dialog acts can be up to 40.
The research on dialog acts have increased since 1999, after spoken dialog systems became commercial reality.
List of dialog acts
Generic (speech acts)
greetings
Meta Question: "What can I say?"
Yes-No Question
Statement
Request
Wh-Question

Domain specific
Identify a dialog act
Script-based method
Learning-based method
References

Discourse (from Latin discursus, meaning "running to and from") denotes written and spoken communications such as: 
In semantics and discourse analysis: A generalization of the concept of conversation within all modalities and contexts.
The totality of codified language (vocabulary) used in a given field of intellectual enquiry and of social practice, such as legal discourse, medical discourse, religious discourse, et cetera.
In the work of Michel Foucault, and that of the social theoreticians he inspired: discourse describes “an entity of sequences, of signs, in that they are enouncements (énoncés)”.
An enouncement (from French l’énoncé, meaning "the statement") is not a unit of semiotic signs, but an abstract construct that allows the signs to assign and communicate specific, repeatable relations to, between, and among objects, subjects, and statements. Hence, a discourse is composed of semiotic sequences (relations among signs) between and among objects, subjects, and statements. The term discursive formation conceptually describes the regular communications (written and spoken) that produce such discourses. As a philosopher, Foucault applied the discursive formation in the analyses of large bodies of knowledge, such as political economy and natural history.
In the first sense-usage (semantics and discourse analysis), the word discourse is studied in corpus linguistics. In the second sense (the codified language of a field of enquiry), and in the third sense (a statement, un énoncé), the analyses of discourse are effected in the intellectual traditions that investigate and determine the relations among language and structure and agency, as in the fields of sociology, feminist studies, anthropology, ethnography, cultural studies, literary theory, and the philosophy of science. Moreover, because discourses are bodies of text meant to communicate specific data, information, and knowledge, there exist internal relations within a given discourse, and external relations among discourses, because a discourse does not exist in isolation (per se), but in relation to other discourses, which are determined and established by means of inter discourse and interdiscursivity. Hence, within a field of intellectual enquiry, the practitioners occasionally debate “What is” and “What is not” discourse, according to the conceptual meanings (denotation and connotation) used in the given field of study.

The humanities
In the humanities and in the social sciences, the term discourse describes a formal way of thinking that can be expressed through language, a social boundary that defines what can be said about a specific topic.
Discourses are seen to affect our views on all things; it is not possible to avoid discourse. For example, two notably distinct discourses can be used about various guerrilla movements describing them either as "freedom fighters" or "terrorists". In other words, the chosen discourse provides the vocabulary, expressions and perhaps also the style needed to communicate.
Discourses are embedded in different rhetorical genres and metagenres that constrain and enable them. That is language talking about language, for instance the American Psychiatric Association's DSMIV manual tells which terms have to be used in talking about mental health, thereby mediating meanings and dictating practices of the professionals of psychology and psychiatry.
Discourse is closely linked to different theories of power and state, at least as long as defining discourses is seen to mean defining reality itself. This conception of discourse is largely derived from the work of French philosopher Michel Foucault.
Modernism
Modern theorists were focused on achieving progress and believed in the existence of natural and social laws which could be used universally to develop knowledge and thus a better understanding of society. Modernist theorists were preoccupied with obtaining the truth and reality and sought to develop theories which contained certainty and predictability. Modernist theorists therefore viewed discourse as being relative to talking or way of talking and understood discourse to be functional. Discourse and language transformations are ascribed to progress or the need to develop new or more “accurate” words to describe new discoveries, understandings, or areas of interest. In modern times, language and discourse are dissociated from power and ideology and instead conceptualized as “natural” products of common sense usage or progress. Modernism further gave rise to the liberal discourses of rights, equality, freedom, and justice; however, this rhetoric masked substantive inequality and failed to account for differences, according to Regnier.
Structuralism
Structuralist theorists, such as Ferdinand de Saussure and Jacques Lacan, argue that all human actions and social formations are related to language and can be understood as systems of related elements. This means that the “…individual elements of a system only have significance when considered in relation to the structure as a whole, and that structures are to be understood as self-contained, self-regulated, and self-transforming entities.”  In other words, it is the structure itself that determines the significance, meaning and function of the individual elements of a system. Structuralism has made an important contribution to our understanding of language and social systems. Saussure’s theory of language highlights the decisive role of meaning and signification in structuring human life more generally.
Postmodernism
Following the perceived limitations of the modern era, emerged postmodern theory. Postmodern theorists rejected modernist claims that there was one theoretical approach that explained all aspects of society. Rather, postmodernist theorists were interested in examining the variety of experience of individuals and groups and emphasized differences over similarities and common experiences.
In contrast to modern theory, postmodern theory is more fluid and allows for individual differences as it rejected the notion of social laws. Postmodern theorists shifted away from truth seeking and instead sought answers for how truths are produced and sustained. Postmodernists contended that truth and knowledge is plural, contextual, and historically produced through discourses. Postmodern researchers therefore embarked on analyzing discourses such as texts, language, policies and practices.
French social theorist Michel Foucault developed a notion of discourse in his early work, especially the Archaeology of knowledge (1972). In Discursive Struggles Within Social Welfare: Restaging Teen Motherhood, Iara Lessa summarizes Foucault's definition of discourse as “systems of thoughts composed of ideas, attitudes, courses of action, beliefs and practices that systematically construct the subjects and the worlds of which they speak." Foucault traces the role of discourses in wider social processes of legitimating and power, emphasizing the construction of current truths, how they are maintained and what power relations they carry with them.” Foucault later theorized that discourse is a medium through which power relations produce speaking subjects. Foucault (1977, 1980) argued that power and knowledge are inter-related and therefore every human relationship is a struggle and negotiation of power. Foucault further stated that power is always present and can both produce and constrain the truth. Discourse according to Foucault (1977, 1980, 2003) is related to power as it operates by rules of exclusion. Discourse therefore is controlled by objects, what can be spoken of; ritual, where and how one may speak; and the privileged, who may speak. Coining the phrases power-knowledge Foucault (1980) stated knowledge was both the creator of power and creation of power. An object becomes a "node within a network." In his work, The Archaeology of Knowledge, Foucault uses the example of a book to illustrate a node within a network. A book is not made up of individual words on a page, each of which has meaning, but rather "is caught up in a system of references to other books, other texts, other sentences." The meaning of that book is connected to a larger, overarching web of knowledge and ideas to which it relates.
One of the key discourses that Foucault identified as part of his critique of power-knowledge was that of neoliberalism, which he related very closely to his conceptualization of governmentality in his lectures on biopolitics. This trajectory of Foucault's thinking has been taken up widely within Human Geography.
See also

Critical discourse analysis
Discipline and Punish
Discourse Community
Episteme
Interdiscursivity
Parrhesia
Political discourse analysis
Postcolonial literature
The Philosophical Discourse of Modernity - A 1985 essay by Jürgen Habermas, regarded as an important contribution to Frankfurt School critical theory.
Notes

References
M. Foucault (1977). Discipline and Punish. New York: Pantheon. ISBN 0-394-49942-5. 
M. Foucault (1980). "Two Lectures," in Colin Gordon, ed., Power/Knowledge: Selected Interviews. New York: Pantheon. 
M. Foucault (2003). Society Must Be Defended. New York: Picador. ISBN 0-312-42266-0. 
A. McHoul & W. Grace (1993). A Foucault primer: Discourse, power, and the subject. Melbourne: Melbourne University Press. ISBN 0-8147-5480-5. 
J. Motion & S. Leitch (2007). "A toolbox for public relations: The oeuvre of Michel Foucault". Public Relations Review 33 (3): 263–268. doi:10.1016/j.pubrev.2007.05.004. 
R. Mullaly (1997). Structural social work: Ideology, theory, and practice (2nd ed.). New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-7710-6673-2. 
B. Norton (1997). "Language, identity, and the ownership of English". TESOL Quarterly (Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages, Inc. (TESOL)) 31 (3): 409–429. doi:10.2307/3587831. JSTOR 3587831. 
Research as resistance: Critical, indigenous and anti-oppressive approaches.(2005). In Brown L. A., Strega S. (Eds.), Toronto: Canadian Scholars' Press.
S. Strega (2005). The view from the poststructural margins: Epistemology and methodology reconsidered. In L. Brown, & S. Strega (Eds.), Research as resistance (pp. 199–235). Toronto: Canadian Scholars' Press.
J. Sunderland (2004). Gendered discourses. New York: PalgraveMacmillan. 
External links
Interdisciplinary research portal discourse analysis. Register and get the news in discourse analysis.
Beyond Open Access: Open Discourse, the next great equalizer, Retrovirology 2006, 3:55
Discourse (from Latin discursus, meaning "running to and from") denotes written and spoken communications such as: 
In semantics and discourse analysis: A generalization of the concept of conversation within all modalities and contexts.
The totality of codified language (vocabulary) used in a given field of intellectual enquiry and of social practice, such as legal discourse, medical discourse, religious discourse, et cetera.
In the work of Michel Foucault, and that of the social theoreticians he inspired: discourse describes “an entity of sequences, of signs, in that they are enouncements (énoncés)”.
An enouncement (from French l’énoncé, meaning "the statement") is not a unit of semiotic signs, but an abstract construct that allows the signs to assign and communicate specific, repeatable relations to, between, and among objects, subjects, and statements. Hence, a discourse is composed of semiotic sequences (relations among signs) between and among objects, subjects, and statements. The term discursive formation conceptually describes the regular communications (written and spoken) that produce such discourses. As a philosopher, Foucault applied the discursive formation in the analyses of large bodies of knowledge, such as political economy and natural history.
In the first sense-usage (semantics and discourse analysis), the word discourse is studied in corpus linguistics. In the second sense (the codified language of a field of enquiry), and in the third sense (a statement, un énoncé), the analyses of discourse are effected in the intellectual traditions that investigate and determine the relations among language and structure and agency, as in the fields of sociology, feminist studies, anthropology, ethnography, cultural studies, literary theory, and the philosophy of science. Moreover, because discourses are bodies of text meant to communicate specific data, information, and knowledge, there exist internal relations within a given discourse, and external relations among discourses, because a discourse does not exist in isolation (per se), but in relation to other discourses, which are determined and established by means of inter discourse and interdiscursivity. Hence, within a field of intellectual enquiry, the practitioners occasionally debate “What is” and “What is not” discourse, according to the conceptual meanings (denotation and connotation) used in the given field of study.

The humanities
In the humanities and in the social sciences, the term discourse describes a formal way of thinking that can be expressed through language, a social boundary that defines what can be said about a specific topic.
Discourses are seen to affect our views on all things; it is not possible to avoid discourse. For example, two notably distinct discourses can be used about various guerrilla movements describing them either as "freedom fighters" or "terrorists". In other words, the chosen discourse provides the vocabulary, expressions and perhaps also the style needed to communicate.
Discourses are embedded in different rhetorical genres and metagenres that constrain and enable them. That is language talking about language, for instance the American Psychiatric Association's DSMIV manual tells which terms have to be used in talking about mental health, thereby mediating meanings and dictating practices of the professionals of psychology and psychiatry.
Discourse is closely linked to different theories of power and state, at least as long as defining discourses is seen to mean defining reality itself. This conception of discourse is largely derived from the work of French philosopher Michel Foucault.
Modernism
Modern theorists were focused on achieving progress and believed in the existence of natural and social laws which could be used universally to develop knowledge and thus a better understanding of society. Modernist theorists were preoccupied with obtaining the truth and reality and sought to develop theories which contained certainty and predictability. Modernist theorists therefore viewed discourse as being relative to talking or way of talking and understood discourse to be functional. Discourse and language transformations are ascribed to progress or the need to develop new or more “accurate” words to describe new discoveries, understandings, or areas of interest. In modern times, language and discourse are dissociated from power and ideology and instead conceptualized as “natural” products of common sense usage or progress. Modernism further gave rise to the liberal discourses of rights, equality, freedom, and justice; however, this rhetoric masked substantive inequality and failed to account for differences, according to Regnier.
Structuralism
Structuralist theorists, such as Ferdinand de Saussure and Jacques Lacan, argue that all human actions and social formations are related to language and can be understood as systems of related elements. This means that the “…individual elements of a system only have significance when considered in relation to the structure as a whole, and that structures are to be understood as self-contained, self-regulated, and self-transforming entities.”  In other words, it is the structure itself that determines the significance, meaning and function of the individual elements of a system. Structuralism has made an important contribution to our understanding of language and social systems. Saussure’s theory of language highlights the decisive role of meaning and signification in structuring human life more generally.
Postmodernism
Following the perceived limitations of the modern era, emerged postmodern theory. Postmodern theorists rejected modernist claims that there was one theoretical approach that explained all aspects of society. Rather, postmodernist theorists were interested in examining the variety of experience of individuals and groups and emphasized differences over similarities and common experiences.
In contrast to modern theory, postmodern theory is more fluid and allows for individual differences as it rejected the notion of social laws. Postmodern theorists shifted away from truth seeking and instead sought answers for how truths are produced and sustained. Postmodernists contended that truth and knowledge is plural, contextual, and historically produced through discourses. Postmodern researchers therefore embarked on analyzing discourses such as texts, language, policies and practices.
French social theorist Michel Foucault developed a notion of discourse in his early work, especially the Archaeology of knowledge (1972). In Discursive Struggles Within Social Welfare: Restaging Teen Motherhood, Iara Lessa summarizes Foucault's definition of discourse as “systems of thoughts composed of ideas, attitudes, courses of action, beliefs and practices that systematically construct the subjects and the worlds of which they speak." Foucault traces the role of discourses in wider social processes of legitimating and power, emphasizing the construction of current truths, how they are maintained and what power relations they carry with them.” Foucault later theorized that discourse is a medium through which power relations produce speaking subjects. Foucault (1977, 1980) argued that power and knowledge are inter-related and therefore every human relationship is a struggle and negotiation of power. Foucault further stated that power is always present and can both produce and constrain the truth. Discourse according to Foucault (1977, 1980, 2003) is related to power as it operates by rules of exclusion. Discourse therefore is controlled by objects, what can be spoken of; ritual, where and how one may speak; and the privileged, who may speak. Coining the phrases power-knowledge Foucault (1980) stated knowledge was both the creator of power and creation of power. An object becomes a "node within a network." In his work, The Archaeology of Knowledge, Foucault uses the example of a book to illustrate a node within a network. A book is not made up of individual words on a page, each of which has meaning, but rather "is caught up in a system of references to other books, other texts, other sentences." The meaning of that book is connected to a larger, overarching web of knowledge and ideas to which it relates.
One of the key discourses that Foucault identified as part of his critique of power-knowledge was that of neoliberalism, which he related very closely to his conceptualization of governmentality in his lectures on biopolitics. This trajectory of Foucault's thinking has been taken up widely within Human Geography.
See also

Critical discourse analysis
Discipline and Punish
Discourse Community
Episteme
Interdiscursivity
Parrhesia
Political discourse analysis
Postcolonial literature
The Philosophical Discourse of Modernity - A 1985 essay by Jürgen Habermas, regarded as an important contribution to Frankfurt School critical theory.
Notes

References
M. Foucault (1977). Discipline and Punish. New York: Pantheon. ISBN 0-394-49942-5. 
M. Foucault (1980). "Two Lectures," in Colin Gordon, ed., Power/Knowledge: Selected Interviews. New York: Pantheon. 
M. Foucault (2003). Society Must Be Defended. New York: Picador. ISBN 0-312-42266-0. 
A. McHoul & W. Grace (1993). A Foucault primer: Discourse, power, and the subject. Melbourne: Melbourne University Press. ISBN 0-8147-5480-5. 
J. Motion & S. Leitch (2007). "A toolbox for public relations: The oeuvre of Michel Foucault". Public Relations Review 33 (3): 263–268. doi:10.1016/j.pubrev.2007.05.004. 
R. Mullaly (1997). Structural social work: Ideology, theory, and practice (2nd ed.). New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-7710-6673-2. 
B. Norton (1997). "Language, identity, and the ownership of English". TESOL Quarterly (Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages, Inc. (TESOL)) 31 (3): 409–429. doi:10.2307/3587831. JSTOR 3587831. 
Research as resistance: Critical, indigenous and anti-oppressive approaches.(2005). In Brown L. A., Strega S. (Eds.), Toronto: Canadian Scholars' Press.
S. Strega (2005). The view from the poststructural margins: Epistemology and methodology reconsidered. In L. Brown, & S. Strega (Eds.), Research as resistance (pp. 199–235). Toronto: Canadian Scholars' Press.
J. Sunderland (2004). Gendered discourses. New York: PalgraveMacmillan. 
External links
Interdisciplinary research portal discourse analysis. Register and get the news in discourse analysis.
Beyond Open Access: Open Discourse, the next great equalizer, Retrovirology 2006, 3:55
A discourse marker is a word or phrase that is relatively syntax-independent and does not change the truth conditional meaning of the sentence, and has a somewhat empty meaning. Examples of discourse markers include the particles "oh", "well", "now", "then", "you know", and "I mean", and the discourse connectives "so", "because", "and", "but", and "or".
In Practical English Usage Michael Swan defines a 'discourse marker' as 'a word or expression which shows the connection between what is being said and the wider context'. For him, a discourse marker is something that either connects a sentence to what comes before or after, or indicates a speaker's attitude to what he is saying. He gives three examples: on the other hand; frankly; as a matter of fact.
Traditionally, some of the words or phrases that were considered discourse markers were treated as "fillers" or "expletives": words or phrases that had no function at all. Now they are assigned functions in different levels of analysis: topic changes, reformulations, discourse planning, stressing, hedging, or backchanneling. Those functions can be classified into three broad groups: (a) relationships among (parts of) utterances; (b) relationships between the speaker and the message, and (c) relationships between speaker and hearer. An example of the latter is the Yiddish involvement discourse marker nu, also used in Modern Hebrew and other languages, often to convey impatience or to urge the hearer to act (cf. German cognate nun, meaning "now" in the sense of "at the moment being discussed," but contrast Latin etymological cognate nunc, meaning "now" in the sense of "at the moment in which discussion is occurring"; Latin used iam for "at the moment being discussed," and German uses jetzt for "at the moment in which discussion is occurring").
Data shows that discourse markers often come from different word classes, such as adverbs ("well") or prepositional phrases ("in fact"). The process that leads from a free construction to a discourse marker can be traced back through grammaticalisation studies and resources.
Common discourse markers used in the English language include "you know", "actually", "basically", "like", "I mean", "okay" and "so".
See also
Discourse particle
Filler
Speech disfluency
Tag question
NotesA discourse relation (or rhetorical relation) is a description of how two segments of discourse are logically connected to one another.
One method of modeling discourse involves a set of concepts that constitute "segmented discourse representation theory" (SDRT).

SDRT
Asher and Lascarides categorize the discourse relations formalized in SDRT into five classes.
Content-level relations
Text structuring relations
Divergent relations
Metatalk relations
Consequence*(α,β)
Explanation*(α,β)
Explanation*q(α,β)
Result*(α,β)
See also
Speech act
Contrast (linguistics)
Notes and references

Bibliography
Asher, Nicholas and Alex Lascarides (2003). Logics of Conversation. Studies in Natural Language Processing. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-65058-5
Pitler, Emily and others (2008). "Easily Identifiable Discourse Relations". University of Pennsylvania Department of Computer and Information Science Technical Report No. MS-CIS-08-24.
Grosz, Barbara J. and Candice L. Sidner (1986). "Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of Discourse". Computational Linguistics 12: 175–204. [aka DSM]
Alistair Knott, 'An Algorithmic Framework for Specifying the Semantics of Discourse Relations', Computational Intelligence 16 (2000).
Mann, William C. and Sandra A .Thompson (1988). "Rhetorical Structure Theory: A theory of text organization". Text 8: 243–281. [aka RST]
External links
Rhetorical Structure Theory — RST website, created by William C. Mann, maintained by Maite Taboada

A discourse topic is the central participant or idea of a stretch of connected discourse or dialogue. The topic is what the discourse is about. The notion is often confused with the related notion of sentence-level topic/theme, which is frequently defined as “what the sentence is about.” Discourse topics have been of considerable interest to linguists because of the relations between the topic of a discourse and various aspects of the grammatical structure of the sentence, including but not limited to strategies for referent-tracking (including the use of voice, inversion, switch-reference markers, and obviation), topic-chaining, and pronominalization.
ReferencesThe word discursive is closely related to the word discourse, which refers to "communication of ideas." In a society there are competing discourses (or narratives) regarding anything and everything such as feminism, racism, casteism, communalism, regionalism, economic development, democracy, governance, etc. These competing discourses struggle for dominance. Ultimately, one of the discourse emerges as dominant. This is known as discursive dominance. If none of the competing discourses manages to establish itself in the psyche of the people, it results in discord.
A dominant discourse is a winning discursive formation. It is the one that survives the widest range of criticisms in various forums and media.
References

Further reading
Dryzek, John S. (2000). Deliberative Democracy and Beyond. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0198295075. 
Fisher, Frank (2003). Reframing Public Policy: Discursive Politics and Deliberative Practices. Oxford: Oxford University Press. pp. 182–86. ISBN 978-0199242634. 
Sharma, Chanchal Kumar (2011). "Discursive Dominance Theory of Economic Reform Sustainability". India Review 10 (2): 126–184. doi:10.1080/14736489.2011.574550. 
For other uses of the word, see discursive.
Discursive Psychology (DP) is a form of discourse analysis that focuses on psychological themes in talk, text and images.
As a counter to mainstream psychology’s treatment of discourse as a “mirror” for people’s expressions of thoughts, intentions, motives, etc., DP’s founders made the case for picturing it instead as if a “construction yard” wherein all such presumptively prior and independent notions of thought and so on were built from linguistic materials, topicalised and, in various less direct ways, handled and managed. Here, the study of the psychological implies commitment not to the inner life of the mind, but rather, to the written and spoken practices within which people invoked, implicitly or explicitly, notions precisely like “the inner life of the mind”. Discursive psychology therefore starts with psychological phenomena as things that are constructed, attended to, and understood in interaction. An evaluation, say, may be constructed using particular phrases and idioms, responded to by the recipient (as a compliment perhaps) and treated as the expression of a strong position. In discursive psychology the focus is not on psychological matters somehow leaking out into interaction; rather interaction is the primary site where psychological issues are live. It is philosophically opposed to more traditional cognitivist approaches to language. It uses studies of naturally occurring conversation to critique the way that topics have been conceptualised and treated in psychology.

History
The origins of what is now termed "discursive psychology" can arguably be traced to the late 1980s, and the collaborative research and analysis sessions that took place as part of Loughborough University's then newly formed Discourse and Rhetoric Group (DARG). The thing itself was originally labeled as DP during the early 1990s by Derek Edwards and Jonathan Potter at Loughborough University. It has since been developed and extended by a number of others, including (but by no means limited to): Charles Antaki, Malcolm Ashmore, Frederick Attenborough, Bethan Benwell, Steve Brown, Carly Butler, Derek Edwards, Alexa Hepburn, Eric Laurier, Hedwig te Molder, Jonathan Potter, Sue Speer, Liz Stokoe, Cristian Tileaga, Sally Wiggins and Sue Wilkinson. Discursive Psychology draws on the philosophy of mind of Ryle and the later Wittgenstein, the rhetorical approach of Michael Billig, the ethnomethodology of Harold Garfinkel, the conversation analysis of Harvey Sacks and the sociology of scientific knowledge of those like Mike Mulkay, Steve Woolgar and Bruno Latour. The term Discursive Psychology was designed partly to indicate that there was not just a methodological shift at work in this form of analysis, but also, and at the same time, that it involved some fairly radical theoretical rethinking.
Study
Discursive psychology conducts studies of both naturally occurring and experimentally engineered human interaction that offer new ways of understanding topics in social and cognitive psychology such as memory and attitudes. Although discursive psychology subscribes to a different view of human mentality than is advanced by mainstream psychology, Edwards and Potter's work was originally motivated by their dissatisfaction with how psychology had treated discourse. In many psychological studies, the things people (subjects) say are treated as windows (with varying degrees of opacity) into their minds. Talk is seen as (and in experimental psychology and protocol analysis used as) descriptions of people's mental content. In contrast, discursive psychology treats talk as social action; that is, we say what we do as a means of, and in the course of, doing things in a socially meaningful world. Thus, the questions that it makes sense to ask also change.
DP-in-action: an illustration
DP can be illustrated with an example from Derek Edwards’ research on script formulations. Traditional social psychology treats scripts as mentally encoded templates that guide action. Discursive psychology focuses on the foundational issue of how a description is built to present a course of action as following from a standardized routine. Take the following example from a couple counselling session (the transcription symbols here were developed by Gail Jefferson). The Counsellor says: before you moved over here how was the marriage. After a delay of about half a second Connie, the wife who is being jointly counselled, replies Oh to me all along, right up to now, my marriage was rock solid. Rock solid = We had arguments like everybody else had arguments, but to me there was no major problems. One thing that discursive psychologists would be interested in would be the way that Connie depicts the arguments that she and her partner have as the routine kind of arguments that everybody has. While arguments might be thought as a problem with a marriage, Connie ‘script formulates’ them as actually characteristic of a 'rock solid' marriage. Action and interaction is accomplished as orderly in interactions of this kind. Discursive psychology focuses on the locally organized practices for constructing the world to serve relevant activities (in this case managing the live question of who is to blame and who needs to change in the counselling). In the discursive psychological vision, scripts are an inseparable part of the practical and moral world of accountability.
Applications of DP: spoken and textual approaches
In the past few years, one particular strand of discursive psychological has focused its analytic gaze on spoken interaction. As a consequence it has relied heavily on (but also contributed to the development of) the principles and practices of Conversation Analysis. Focusing on material drawn from real world situations such as relationship counselling, child protection helplines, neighbour disputes and family mealtimes, it has asked questions such as: How does a party in relationship counselling construct the problem as something that the other party needs to work on? How does a child protection officer working on a child protection helpline manage the possibly competing tasks of soothing a crying caller and simultaneously eliciting evidence sufficient for social services to intervene to help an abused child? And what makes a parent's request to a child to eat different from a directive, and different in turn from a threat?
Although most recent DP oriented studies take talk-in-interaction as their primary data, it is not difficult to locate another strand of DP-related research in which texts are approached as sites for the active literary/narratorial management of matters such as agency, intent, doubt, culpability, belief, prejudice, and so on. One of the founding studies for this kind of textual approach was 'Who killed the Princess? Description and Blame in the British Print Press' by Derek Edwards and Katie MacMillan. The ‘generally applicable discourse analytic approach’ articulated and demonstrated therein has proved particularly useful to and for the study of media texts. Whereas traditional DP studies explore the situated, occasioned, rhetorical use of our rich common sense psychological lexicon across various forms of spoken data, this newer form of textual DP shows that and how authors use that same lexicon in order to present themselves (or others) as individuals and/or members of larger collectives that are (ab)normal, (ir)rational, (un)reasonable, etc. This approach has proved particularly productive in an age marked by the growth in usage of social media, SMS texts, photo messaging apps, blogs/vlogs, YouTube, interactive websites (etc.): never before have so many opportunities for explicitly public, accountably interactional and rhetorically motivated invocations of psychological terms been available to so many people.
See also
Discursive complex
Critical Discourse Analysis
Conversation Analysis
Ethnomethodology
Ordinary language philosophy
Sociology of Scientific Knowledge
Stylistics
Mediated Stylistics
Classic texts
Edwards, D (1997) Discourse and Cognition. London: Sage.
Edwards, D., & Potter, J. (1992). Discursive Psychology (ISBN 0-8039-8442-1) London: Sage.
Potter, J. and Edwards, D. (2001). The New handbook of language and Social Psychology.
Potter, J. & Wetherell, M. (1987). Discourse and social psychology: Beyond attitudes and behaviour. London: Sage
Further Reading and new developments
Antaki, C., Leudar, I. (2001). Recruiting the record: using opponents’ exact words in parliamentary argumentation. Text, 21(4): 467-488.
Attenborough, F. (2011). 'I don't fucking care!' Marginalia and the (textual) negotiation of an academic identity by university students. Discourse & Communication, 5(2): 99-121.
Attenborough, F. (2012). Sexism re-loaded…or sexism re-presented? Irrelevant precision and the British Press. Feminist Media Studies 13(4): 693-709.
Attenborough, F. (forthcoming, 2015) A forgotten legacy? Towards a Discursive Psychology of the Media. In C. Tileaga, E. Stokoe (eds.) Discursive Psychology: Classic and Contemporary Issues. London: Routledge.
Button, G., Coulter, J., Lee, J.R.E. & Sharrock, W. (1995). Computers, minds, and conduct. Polity Press, Cambridge, UK.
Garfinkel, H. (1967). Studies in ethnomethodology. Englewood Cliffs, N.J., Prentice-Hall.
Hepburn, A. (2003). Crying: Notes on description, transcription and interaction. Research on Language and Social Interaction, 37, 251-90.
Horton-Salway, M. (2012). Gendering attention deficit hyperactivity disorder: a discursive analysis of UK newspaper stories, Journal of Health Psychology, 18(8): 1085-1099.
Lamerichs, J. and te Molder, H. (2003) ‘Computer-mediated communication: From a cognitive to a discursive model’, New Media and Society, 5: 451–73.
Laurier, E. 2000. Why people say where they are during mobile phone calls, Environment and Planning: D, Society & Space, 19, 485-504.
Nicholas, L. (2009). Introduction to Psychology. Publisher Juta and Company Ltd. ISBN 1919895027, 9781919895024
Parker, I. (2003). Critical Discursive Psychology. Publisher Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN 033397381X, 9780333973813
Sneijder, P., and te Molder, H. (2005) ‘Moral logic and logical morality: attributions of responsibility and blame in online discourse on veganism’, Discourse and Society, 16: 675-696.
Sneijder, P., & te Molder, H. F. M. (2009). Normalizing ideological food choice and eating practices. Identity work in online discussions on veganism. Appetite, 52(3), 621–630.
Speer, S., (2002). Sexist talk: gender categories, participants’ orientation and irony. Journal of Sociolinguistics, 6 (3), 347–377.
Stokoe, E., Benwell, B. (2006). Discourse and Identity. Edinburgh. Edinburgh University Press.
Wiggins, S. (2016, forthcoming) Discursive Psychology: Theory, Method and Applications. London: Sage.
ReferencesEpisteme, as distinguished from techne, is etymologically derived from the Ancient Greek word ἐπιστήμη for knowledge or science, which comes from the verb ἐπίσταμαι, "to know". In Plato's terminology episteme means knowledge, as in "justified true belief", in contrast to doxa, common belief or opinion. The word epistemology, meaning the study of knowledge, is derived from episteme.

Episteme in Western philosophy
The concept of episteme in Michel Foucault
The French philosopher and social theorist Michel Foucault used the term épistème in a highly specialized sense in his work The Order of Things to mean the historical a priori that grounds knowledge and its discourses and thus represents the condition of their possibility within a particular epoch. In subsequent writings, he made it clear that several epistemes may co-exist and interact at the same time, being parts of various power-knowledge systems. But he did not discard the concept:

I would define the episteme retrospectively as the strategic apparatus which permits of separating out from among all the statements which are possible those that will be acceptable within, I won’t say a scientific theory, but a field of scientificity, and which it is possible to say are true or false. The episteme is the ‘apparatus’ which makes possible the separation, not of the true from the false, but of what may from what may not be characterised as scientific.

Yet in Foucault's The Order of Things he describes Episteme as:

However, if in any given culture and at any given moment, there is always only one episteme that defines the conditions of possibility of all knowledge, whether expressed in a theory or silently invested in a practice. (Foucault, 168)

Foucault's use of episteme has been asserted as being similar to Thomas Kuhn's notion of a paradigm, as for example by Jean Piaget. However, there are decisive differences. Whereas Kuhn's paradigm is an all-encompassing collection of beliefs and assumptions that result in the organization of scientific worldviews and practices, Foucault's episteme is not merely confined to science but to a wider range of discourse (all of science itself would fall under the episteme of the epoch). While Kuhn's paradigm shifts are a consequence of a series of conscious decisions made by scientists to pursue a neglected set of questions, Foucault's epistemes are something like the 'epistemological unconscious' of an era; the configuration of knowledge in a particular episteme is based on a set of fundamental assumptions that are so basic to that episteme so as to be invisible to people operating within it. Moreover, Kuhn's concept seems to correspond to what Foucault calls theme or theory of a science, but Foucault analysed how opposing theories and themes could co-exist within a science. Kuhn doesn't search for the conditions of possibility of opposing discourses within a science, but simply for the (relatively) invariant dominant paradigm governing scientific research (supposing that one paradigm always is pervading, except under paradigmatic transition). In contrast, Foucault attempts to demonstrate the constitutive limits of discourse, and in particular, the rules enabling their productivity; however, Foucault maintained that though ideology may infiltrate and form science, it need not do so: it must be demonstrated how ideology actually forms the science in question; contradictions and lack of objectivity is not an indicator of ideology. Kuhn's and Foucault's notions are both influenced by the French philosopher of science Gaston Bachelard's notion of an "epistemological rupture", as indeed was Althusser. More recently, Judith Butler used the concept of episteme in her book Excitable Speech, examining the use of speech-act theory for political purposes.
See also

Epistemology
Phronesis
Techne
Notes

References
Stoller, Paul (1989), The Taste of Ethnographic Things, Philadelphia, PA: University of Pennsylvania Press .
Foucault, Michel (1980) [1969], L'Archéologie du savoir [The Archaeology of Knowledge] (in French), Paris: Gallimard .
The Essex School constitutes a variety of discourse analysis, one that combines theoretical sophistication – mainly due to its reliance on the post-structuralist and psychoanalytic traditions and, in particular, on the work of Lacan, Foucault, Barthes, Derrida, etc. – with analytical precision, since it focuses predominantly on an in-depth analysis of political discourses in late modernity.
Founding figures of this approach are Ernesto Laclau and Chantal Mouffe, two post-Marxist political theorists, who, disillusioned with economic reductionism, tried, already from the 1970s, to reinterpret Gramsci’s theory of hegemony in a way highlighting the role of meaning and of processes of interpellation and identification in the creation of political identities and in the articulation and sedimentation of political discourses and hegemonic orders. The paradigmatic formulation of this innovative orientation and of its various conceptual innovations can be found in Laclau’s and Mouffe’s Hegemony and Socialist Strategy, first published in 1985, as well as in many subsequent contributions of the two thinkers.
The approach developed by Laclau and Mouffe and the theoretical traditions influencing their thought – mainly Saussurean linguistics, Lacanian psychoanalysis and deconstruction – provided the teaching backbone of the graduate programme in Ideology and Discourse Analysis Laclau founded at the University of Essex in the early 1980s. Already from its inception, the programme attracted many MA and PhD students from around the globe, especially from Argentina, Mexico, Greece, Denmark, Spain, the US and the UK. Many PhD theses further developing Laclau’s and Mouffe’s discourse theory and/or applying it in the empirical analysis of concrete empirical cases have since been completed. Graduates of the programme are now employed by universities in many parts of the world, while the programme itself is run by three members of staff at Essex: Aletta Norval, David Howarth and Jason Glynos, all ex-PhD students of Laclau. Academics associated with the programme have also set up a World Network in Ideology and Discourse Analysis, which provides a web-based channel of communication between its 203 registered members and has also organized the Inaugural World Conference in Ideology and Discourse Analysis, which took place from 8-10 September 2008 at Roskilde University, Denmark, with Ernesto Laclau as keynote speaker.
Apart from setting up a distinct graduate programme, now in its third decade, three other factors are indicative of the increasing international recognition and the gradual institutionalization of the research tradition initiated by Laclau and Mouffe: (i) The activities of the Centre for Theoretical Studies in the Humanities and the Social Sciences, also founded by Laclau at the University of Essex (and now co-directed by Norval and Howarth), which functioned as the intellectual hub of the Ideology and Discourse Analysis group; (ii) The publication, from 2000 onwards, of a series of monographs, edited collections and textbooks by members of the group, some of them based on the doctoral research conducted within the programme; (iii) The inclusion of the orientation developed by Laclau and Mouffe and their students as a distinct research direction within the field of discourse analysis in textbooks and introductions to the field published by independent scholars.
As a result of all these developments, the distinct identity of the group and of its research output gradually triggered a process of naming. From 2003 onwards, when critics wanted to refer to the work of members of the group, they used the phrase ‘the Essex School’, which is now widely used by both members of the group and ‘outsiders’.
The Essex School does not limit the research direction of its ‘members’, each one of whom develops her or his own orientation independently; it offers, however, a loose framework within which a multitude of theoretical and political interventions can flourish, enriching the original vision of Laclau and Mouffe.

Members
Ernesto Laclau
Chantal Mouffe
Aletta Norval
David Howarth
Jason Glynos
Yannis Stavrakakis
Oliver Marchart
Jacob Torfing (*1963 in Copenhagen)
Torben Bech Dyrberg
Sebastian Barros
Alejandro Groppo
References

Bibliography
Glynos, Jason & Howarth, David (2007) Logics of Critical Explanation in Social and Political Theory. London: Routledge.
Howarth, David (2000) Discourse. Buckingham: Open University Press.
Howarth, David, Norval, Aletta & Stavrakakis, Yannis, eds. (2000) Discourse Theory and Political Analysis: identities, hegemonies and social change. Manchester - New York: Manchester University Press – St Martin's Press.
Howarth, David & Torfing, Jacob, eds. (2005) Discourse Theory in European Politics. Houndmills: Palgrave.
Laclau, Ernesto & Mouffe, Chantal (1985) Hegemony and Socialist Strategy. London: Verso.
Laclau, Ernesto (1990) New Reflections on the Revolution of Our Time. London: Verso.
Laclau, Ernesto, ed. (1994) The Making of the Political Identities. London: Verso.
Laclau, Ernesto (1996) Emancipation(s). London: Verso.
Laclau, Ernesto (2005) The Populist Reason. London: Verso.
Mouffe, Chantal (1993) The Return of the Political. London: Verso.
Mouffe, Chantal, ed. (1996) Deconstruction and Pragmatism. New York: Routledge.
Mouffe, Chantal (2000) The Democratic Paradox. London: Verso.
Mouffe, Chantal (2006) On the Political. London: Routledge.
Phillips, Louise & Jorgensen, Marianne (2002) Discourse Analysis as Theory and Method. London: Sage.
Smith, A. M. (1998) Laclau and Mouffe: The Radical Democratic Imaginary. London: Routledge.
Stavrakakis, Yannis (1999) Lacan and the Political. London and New York: Routledge.
Stavrakakis, Yannis (2007) The Lacanian Left. Albany: SUNY Press.
Torfing, Jacob (1999) New Theories of Discourse. Oxford: Blackwell.
External links
Ideology and Discourse Analysis programme, University of Essex
Centre for Theoretical Studies in the Humanities and the Social Sciences – University of Essex
World Network in Ideology and Discourse Analysis
Inaugural world conference in Ideology and Discourse Analysis – Roskilde University
The Essex School at the ‘Discursive Directions Abroad’ list posted by the Centre for Political Discourse Studies, Hungary
Spanish paper on the Essex School
Ideology and Discourse Analysis at the Essex Summer School
The Essex School in the ‘Discourse Analysis: Varieties and Methods’ ESRC report
L’école d’Essex et la théorie politique du discours : une lecture « post-marxiste » de Foucault by Erwan Sommerer. Raisons politiques 3/2005 (n° 19), p. 193-209.
The ethnography of communication (EOC), formerly called the ethnography of speaking, is the analysis of communication within the wider context of the social and cultural practices and beliefs of the members of a particular culture or speech community. It is a method of discourse analysis in linguistics that draws on the anthropological field of ethnography. Unlike ethnography proper, though, EOC takes into account both the communicative form, which may include but is not limited to spoken language, and its function within the given culture.
General aims of this qualitative research method include being able to discern which communication acts and/or codes are important to different groups, what types of meanings groups apply to different communication events, and how group members learn these codes, in order to provide insight into particular communities. This additional insight may be used to enhance communication with group members, make sense of group members’ decisions, and distinguish groups from one another, among other things.

Origins
Dell Hymes proposed the ethnography of communication as an approach towards analyzing patterns of language use within speech communities, in order to provide support for his idea of communicative competence, which itself was a reaction to Noam Chomsky's distinction between linguistic competence and linguistic performance.
Originally coined "ethnography of speaking" in Dell Hymes' eponymous 1962 paper, it was redefined in his 1964 paper, Introduction: Toward Ethnographies of Communication to accommodate for the non-vocal and non-verbal characteristics of communication, although most EOC researchers still tend to focus upon speaking as it is generally considered "to be a prominent - even primordial - means of communication."
The term "ethnography of communication" is meant to be descriptive of the characteristics that an approach towards language from an anthropological standpoint must take. Namely, according to Dell Hymes, it must 1) "investigate directly the use of language in contexts of situations so as to discern patterns proper to speech activity" and 2) "take as context a community, investigating its communicative habits as a whole." In other words, rather than divorcing linguistic form from its function, the analysis of a culture's or community's communication, linguistic and otherwise, must occur with respect to the sociocultural context of its use and the functions of the meanings conveyed. As Deborah Cameron puts it, "If you are mainly concerned with the way a certain speech event fits into a whole network of cultural beliefs and practices, you will spend more time describing things that are external to the talk itself: who the speakers are, where they are, what beliefs and customs are important in their lives."
Usage
In their book Qualitative Communication Research Methods, communications scholars Thomas R. Lindlof and Bryan C. Taylor explain "Ethnography of communication conceptualizes communication as a continuous flow of information, rather than as a segmented exchange of messages." According to Deborah Cameron, EOC can be thought of as the application of ethnographic methods to the communication patterns of a group. Littlejohn & Foss recall that Dell Hymes suggests that "cultures communicate in different ways, but all forms of communication require a shared code, communicators who know and use the code, a channel, a setting, a message form, a topic, and an event created by transmission of the message." "EOC studies," according to Lindlof and Taylor, "produce highly detailed analysis of communication codes and their moment-to-moment functions in various contexts. In these analyses, speech communities are constituted in local and continuous performances of cultural and moral matters."
EOC can be used as a means by which to study the interactions among members of a specific culture or "speech community." A speech community is any group of people that creates and establishes their own speaking codes and norms. Philipsen explains that "Each community has its own cultural values about speaking and these are linked to judgments of situational appropriateness." The meaning and understanding of the presence or absence of speech within different communities will vary. Local cultural patterns and norms must be understood for analysis and interpretation of the appropriateness of speech act situated within specific communities. Thus, "the statement that talk is not anywhere valued equally in all social contexts suggests a research strategy for discovering and describing cultural or subcultural differences in the value of speaking. Speaking is one among other symbolic resources which are allocated and distributed in social situations according to distinctive culture patterns."
Hymes also used EOC to argue against the strong view of the Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis, or the idea that the language one speaks determine one's cognitive ability. While Hymes believed that language did affect one's world view, he argued that the extent of that effect depended "on the circumstances of its acquisition, and its place in the linguistic repertoire of a person and a community."
The SPEAKING model

A model that Hymes developed as a framework for the analysis of a speech event within its cultural context is the mnemonic SPEAKING model. The model consists of sixteen components, which Hymes believed were necessary to consider in order to accurately and satisfactorily describe any particular speech event: message form, message content, setting, scene, speaker/sender, addressor, hearer/receiver/audience, addressee, purposes (outcomes), purposes (goals), key, channels, forms of speech, norms of interaction, norms of interpretation, and genres. These sixteen components are organized into eight divisions to form the acronym SPEAKING.
S - setting and scene: where the speech event is located in time and space
P - participants: who takes part in the speech event, and in what role (e.g. speaker, addressee, audience, eavesdropper)
E - ends: what the purpose of the speech event is, and what its outcome is meant to be
A - act sequence: what speech acts make up the speech event, and what order they are performed in
K - key: the tone or manner of performance (serious or joking, sincere or ironic, etc.)
I - instrumentalities: what channel or medium of communication is used (e.g. speaking, signing, writing, drumming, whistling), and what language/variety is selected from the participants' repertoire
N - norms of interaction: what the rules are for producing and interpreting speech acts
G - genres: what 'type' does a speech event belong to (e.g. interview, gossip), and what other pre-existing conventional forms of speech are drawn on or 'cited' in producing appropriate contributions to talk (e.g. do people quote from mythology or poetry or scripture?)
While the SPEAKING model is a valuable model to EOC, as well as the descriptive framework most commonly used in ethnography of communication, Cameron cautions that Hymes' model should be used more as a guide than a template, because adhering to it too narrowly may create a limiting view of the subject of its study. Ethnography of communication, according to Cameron, should strive not only to "address such 'descriptive' questions as 'what speech events occur in such-and-such a community?' and 'what are the components of speech events X, Y, and Z?'", but also to explain "why particular events occur and why they have particular characteristics."
Notable studies
Several research studies have used ethnography of communication as a methodological tool when conducting empirical research. Examples of this work include Philipsen’s study, which examined the ways in which blue-collar men living near Chicago spoke or did not speak based on communication context and personal identity relationship status (i.e. whether they were considered to be of symmetrical or asymmetrical social status). Other examples include Katriel’s study of Israeli communication acts involving griping and joking about national and public problems, as well as Carbaugh's comparative studies of communication in a variety of intercultural contexts. These studies not only identify communication acts, codes, rules, functions, and norms, but they also offer different ways in which the method can be applied. Joel Sherzer's Kuna Ways of Speaking investigates the ways of speaking among the Kuna of Panama. This is a landmark study that focuses on curing ways, everyday speaking, puberty rites, and gathering house speech-making. It was the first monograph that explicitly took an ethnography of speaking perspective to the whole range of verbal practices among a group of people.
See also
Qualitative methods
Communication theory
Linguistic relativity
Pragmatics
ReferencesFeminist post-structuralist discourse analysis (FPDA) is a method of discourse analysis based on Chris Weedon's theories of feminist post-structuralism, and developed as a method of analysis by Judith Baxter in 2003. FPDA is based on a combination of feminism and post-structuralism. While it is still evolving as a methodology, FPDA has been used by a range of international scholars of gender and language to analyse texts such as: classroom discourse (Castañeda-Peña 2008; Sauntson 2012), teenage girls' conversation (Kamada 2008; 2010), and media representations of gender (Baker 2013). FPDA is an approach to analysing the discourse of spoken interaction principally.
The poststructualist part of FPDA views language as social practice and considers that people's identities and relationships are 'performed' through spoken interaction. FPDA analyses the ways in which speakers are 'positioned' by different and often competing 'discourses' according to Michel Foucault's (1972: 49) definition as 'practices that systematically form the objects of which they speak'. According to this, speakers constantly move between powerful and powerless 'subject positions' as they talk and interact. FPDA is influenced by a poststructuralist rather than a Critical Discourse Analysis (CDA) perspective: that is, the method is informed by the view that no speaker is wholly a victim and powerless, nor wholly dominant and powerful. Rather, speakers are constantly shifting their subject positions according to the interplay of discourses within specific settings. The feminist part of FPDA considers gender difference to be a dominant discourse among competing discourses when analysing all types of text. According to Baxter (2003), FPDA does not have an 'emancipatory' agenda for women but a 'transformative' one. This means that it aims to represent women's voices that have been 'silenced' or marginalised since FPDA considers that these have been historically absent in many cultures. For example, Kamada (2008a; 2008b and 2010) uses FPDA to show how a friendship group of half-Japanese girls, who are seen by their culture as 'less than whole', draw upon competing discourses to negotiate more positive versions of their 'hybrid' ethnic and gender identities.

Background
The above definition of FPDA developed from the ideas of the formalist, Mikhail Bakhtin (1981)] and the poststructuralist thinkers Jacques Derrida (1987)] and Michel Foucault (1972) in relation to power, knowledge and discourses. It is also based on the feminist work of Victorial Bergvall (1998)], Judith Butler (1990) Bronwyn Davies (1997), Valerie Walkerdine (1990)] and especially Chris Weedon (1997). Adopters of FPDA include Judith Baxter in the analysis of classroom talk and business meeting interactions; Laurel Kamada (2008; 2008; 2010) in the analysis of 'hybrid' identities of half-Japanese girls, Harold Castañeda-Peña (2008) in the examination of pupils in an EFL classroom in Brazil; Helen Sauntson in the analysis of UK secondary school classroom talk; and Paul Baker(2013) in the study of newspaper representations of predatory women. FPDA is based on the following principles, which continue to be discussed and debated by scholars:
Discourse as social practice (rather than, or additional to, ‘language above the sentence’ or as ‘language in use’ (Cameron, 2001)
The performative (rather than the essentialist or possessive) nature of speakers’ identities; gender is something people enact or do, not something they are or characterise (Butler 1990)
The diversity and multiplicity of speakers’ identities: thus, gender is just one of many cultural variables constructing speakers’ identities (e.g. regional background, ethnicity, class, age), though it is still viewed as potentially highly significant
The construction of meaning within localised or context-specific settings or communities of practice such as classrooms, board meetings, TV talk shows
An interest in deconstruction: working out how binary power relations (e.g. males/females, public/private, objective/subjective) constitute identities, subject positions and interactions within discourses and texts, and challenging such binaries
Inter-discursivity: recognising ways in which one discourse is always inscribed and inflected with traces of other discourses, or how one text is interwoven with another
The need for continuous self-reflexivity: being continuously explicit and questioning about the values and assumptions made by discourse analysis.
See also
Post-structuralism
Discourse
Critical Discourse Analysis
Feminism
Feminist theory
References

Further reading
Bakhtin, M. (1981), The Dialogic Imagination: Four Essays. Austin, Texas: The University of Texas.
Baxter, J. (2007), ‘Post-structuralist analysis of classroom discourse’, in M. Martin-Jones and A.M. de Mejia (eds), Encyclopaedia of Language and Education: Discourse and Education, Vol 3. New York: Springer, pp. 69 – 80.
Baxter, J. (2010) The Language of Female Leadership. Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Baxter, J. (2008), ‘FPDA – a new theoretical and methodological approach?’ in K. Harrington, L.
Litosseliti, H. Sauntson, and J. Sunderland (eds.) Gender and Language Research Methodologies. Palgrave: Macmillan, pp. 243 – 55.
Bergvall, V. L. (1998) 'Constructing and enacting gender through discourse: negotiating multiple roles as female engineering students.' In V.L. Bergvall, J.M. Bing and A.F.Fredd (eds.) Rethinking Language and Gender Research. Harlow: Penguin.
Butler, J. (1990) Gender Trouble, Feminism and the Subversion of Identity. New York: Routledge.
Davies, B.(1997)The subject of poststructuralism: A reply to Alison Jones. Gender and Education, 9, pp. 271–83.
Derrida, J. (1987), A Derrida Reader: Between the Blinds. Brighton: Harvester Wheatsheaf.
Foucault, M. (1972), The Archaeology of Knowledge and the Discourse on Language. New York: Pantheon.
Harré, R. (1995) ‘Agentive discourse’, in R. Harré and P. Stearns (eds.), Discursive Psychology in Practice. London: Sage, pp. 120 – 29.
Kamada, L. (2008), ‘Discursive “embodied” identities of “half” girls in Japan: a multi-perspectival approach within Feminist Poststructuralist Discourse Analysis’, in K. Harrington, L. Litosseliti, H. Sauntson, and J. Sunderland (eds.), Gender and Language Research Methodologies. Palgrave: Macmillan, pp. 174 – 90.
Litosseliti, L. and Sunderland, J. (2002), Gender Identity and Discourse Analysis. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Potter, J. and Reicher, S. (1987), ‘Discourses of community and conflict: the organisation of social categories in accounts of a ‘riot’.’ British Journal of Social Psychology, 26: 25 – 40.
Potter, J. and Edwards, D. (1990), ‘Nigel Lawson’s tent: discourse analysis, attribution theory and social psychology of fact’. European Journal of Psychology, 20, 405 – 24.
Potter, J. and Wetherell, M. (1987), Discourse and Social Psychology: Beyond Attitudes and Behaviour. London: Sage.
Sunderland, J. (2004) Gendered Discourses. Basingstole: Palgrave.
Walkerdine, V. (1990) Schoolgirl Fictions. London: Verso.
Warhol, T. (2005), ‘Feminist Poststructuralist Discourse Analysis and biblical authority’. Paper delivered at BAAL/CUP Seminar: Theoretical and Methodological Approaches to Gender and Language Study, Nov 18-19, 2005, University of Birmingham, UK.
Weedon, C. (1997) Feminist Practice and Post-structuralist Theory. 2nd edn. Oxford: Blackwell.
Wetherell, M. (1998), ‘Positioning and interpretative repertoires: conversation analysis and poststructuralism in dialogue.’ Discourse and Society, 9 (3), 387-412.
Wodak, R. (1996), Disorders of Discourse. London: Longman.
Foucauldian discourse analysis is a form of discourse analysis, focusing on power relationships in society as expressed through language and practices, and based on the theories of Michel Foucault.

Theory
Besides focusing on the meaning of a given discourse, the distinguishing characteristic of this approach is its stress on power relationships. These are expressed through language and behavior, and the relationship between language and power. The method analyzes how the social world, expressed through language, is affected by various sources of power. As such, this approach is close to social constructivism, as the researcher tries to understand how our society is being shaped (or constructed) by language, which in turn reflects existing power relationships. The analysis attempts to understand how individuals view the world, and studies categorizations, personal and institutional relationships, ideology, and politics.
The approach was inspired by the work of both Michel Foucault and Jacques Derrida, and by psychoanalysis and critical theory.
Foucauldian discourse analysis, like much of critical theory, is often used in politically oriented studies. It is preferred by scholars who criticize more traditional forms of discourse analysis as failing to account for the political implications of discourse.
Process
Kendall and Wickham outline five steps in using "Foucauldian discourse analysis". The first step is a simple recognition that discourse is a body of statements that are organized in a regular and systematic way. The subsequent four steps are based on the identification of rules on:
how those statements are created;
what can be said (written) and what cannot;
how spaces in which new statements can be made are created;
making practices material and discursive at the same time.
Areas of study
Studies employing the Foucauldian discourse analysis may for example look at how figures in authority use language to express their dominance, and request obedience and respect from those subordinate to them. In a specific example, a study may look at the language used by teachers towards students, or military officers towards conscripts. This approach could also be used to study how language is used as a form of resistance to those in power.
See also
Discipline and Punish
The Archaeology of Knowledge
The History of Sexuality
Michel Foucault bibliography
References

Further reading
Angermuller, J. (2014): Poststructuralist Discourse Analysis. Subjectivity in Enunciative Pragmatics. Postdisciplinary Studies in Discourse, edited by Johannes Angermuller and Judith Baxter, vol. 1. Basingstoke, Houndmills: Palgrave Macmillan.
Mills, Sara. "Discourse: The new critical idiom." Series Editor: John Drakakis, Routledge (1997).
In discourse-based grammatical theory, information flow is any tracking of referential information by speakers. Information may be new, just introduced into the conversation; given, already active in the speakers' consciousness; or old, no longer active. The various types of activation, and how these are defined, are model-dependent.
Information flow affects grammatical structures such as
word order (topic, focus, and afterthought constructions).
active, passive, or middle voice.
choice of deixis, such as articles; "medial" deictics such as Spanish ese and Japanese sore are generally determined by the familiarity of a referent rather than by physical distance.
overtness of information, such as whether an argument of a verb is indicated by a lexical noun phrase, a pronoun, or not mentioned at all.
Interactional linguistics is a recent interdisciplinary approach to grammar and interaction in the fields of linguistics, the sociology of language, and anthropology. Scholars in interactional linguistics draw from functional linguistics, conversation analysis, and linguistic anthropology in order to describe "the way in which language figures in everyday interaction and cognition." Studies in interactional linguistics view linguistic forms, including syntactic and prosodic structures, as greatly affected by interactions among participants in speech, signing, or other language use. The field contrasts with dominant approaches to linguistics during the twentieth century, which tended to focus either on the form of language per se, or on theories of individual language user's linguistic competence.
References

Further reading
Couper-Kuhlen, E. and M. Selting. (1996) Prosody in Conversation: Interactional Studies. Cambridge University Press.
Ford, C. (1993) Grammar in Interaction. Cambridge University Press.
Ford, C. and J. Wagner (1996) Interaction-based Studies of Language. Special issue of Pragmatics 6(3).
Interactional sociolinguistics is a subdiscipline of linguistics that uses discourse analysis to study how language users create meaning via social interaction. Interactional sociolinguistics was founded by linguistic anthropologist John J. Gumperz. Topics of interest include cross-cultural miscommunication, politeness, and framing.
In terms of research methods, interactional sociolinguists analyze audio or video recordings of conversations or other interactions. Analysis focuses not only on linguistic forms such as words and sentences but also on subtle cues such as prosody and register that signal contextual presupposition. These contextualization cues are culturally specific and usually unconscious. When participants in a conversation come from different cultural backgrounds they may not recognize these subtle cues in one another's speech, leading to misunderstanding.
See also
Code-switching
Conversation analysis
Ethnography of communication
Mediated discourse analysis
Pragmatics
Schismogenesis in sociolinguistics
Sociolinguistics
ReferencesInterdiscourse is the implicit or explicit relations that a discourse has to other discourses. Interdiscursivity is the aspect of a discourse that relates it to other discourses. Norman Fairclough prefers the concept "orders of discourse". Interdiscursivity is often mostly an analytic concept, e.g. in Foucault and Fairclough. Interdiscursivity has close affinity to recontextualisation because interdiscourse often implies that elements are imported from another discourse.
The meaning of interdiscourse varies. It denotes at least three levels:
In Courtine interdiscursivity means that a discourse has a relation to another discourse. That is, a meaning which is close to the meaning of intertextuality.
In Norman Fairclough and Linell interdiscursive denotes relations between types of discourse such as genres.
In Michel Foucault and Marc Angenot, interdiscursive  denotes relations between discursive formations, that is, between large heterogeneous discursive entities, such as natural history and political economy during enlightenment. In Michel Foucault, interdiscourse is differences and equalities across discursive formations.
An example (where 1. corresponds to a., etc.) illustrates the three levels: A minister of environment speaks in the parliament about a proposal.
a. She refers to other specific speeches in the parliament about the proposal.
b. She refers to a memorandum from her civil servants.
c. She refers to scientific reports supporting the proposal.
The example illustrates that 2. and 3. are specific cases of 1, in the sense a-c all relate to another discourse. To avoid this, level 1. might be defined as relations to other discourses within the same discursive formation and type of discourse. Consequently, the definition of the levels depends on the definition of discursive formation and types of discourse, and the three levels may collapse to the extent that these concepts are not conceived. In short, the stratification of interdiscourse depends on the stratification of discourse.
Power, ideology and interdiscursive configuration
Level 2. and 3. may be conceived as particularly salient. This is explained in Marc Angenot and Bruce by reference to Bakhtin: In Bakhtin's dialogism, the utterance is the natural meaningful and finalised unit of speech, which others are supposed to respond to, that is, others interpret the utterance by situating it in a discursive context. But, an utterance may be interpreted (contextualised) in various ways, and interdiscourse and interdiscursivity denote how certain such interpretations (and relations to other discourses) are socially more privileged than others. Since interdiscourse privileges certain interpretations, it has a close affinity to the concepts of ideology, hegemony and power (sociology). For Bakhtin/Voloshinov, signs are a reality that refracts another reality, that is, signs are ideological. Therefore, the embedding a discourse in an interdiscourse is an ideological interpretation of the discourse.
In Michel Foucault, interdiscursivity is not bound to ideology, but is a more open concept for analysing relations between discursive formations, that is, mapping their interdiscursive configuration. Such analyses constitute a part of his discourse analysis.
The cogent and restrictive character of the interdiscourse is reflected in the concept of the primacy of interdiscourse. The interdiscourse is the sayable, the opposite of what cannot be enunciated (l'inénoncable). But, the interdiscourse has also primacy in the sense that it defines the relations between discursive entities (or formations) that are constitutive of the discursive entities. What is acceptable discourse, is in many respects a matter of interdiscursivity at level 2 and 3, because the interdiscursive import and export relations constitute a worksharing between the discursive entities, and this frames what is acceptable discourse within each discursive entity: Generally, a discourse has little authority over what other discourses are assumed to speak of and will therefore accept imported form and content from the other discourses. On the other hand, when a discourse exports content to other discourses, there are expectations as to the exported form and content. Thus, the interdiscursive system shapes the discourses.
Notes

References
Angenot, Marc. Social Discourse Analysis: Outlines of a Research Project Yale Journal of Criticism, 2004, 17, Number 2, Fall 2004, pp. 199–215
Angenot, Marc. 1889. Un état du discours social. Éditions du Préambule, Montréal, 1989
Bahktin, M.M. (1986) Speech genres and other late Essays. University of Texas Press.
Bruce, Donald. (1995). De l'intertextuality à l'interdiscursivity. Toronto: Les Editions Paratexte.
Courtine, Jean-Jacques (1981) Analyse du discours politique (le discours communiste adressé aux chrétiens) Paris: Languages 1981, 5-128
Fairclough, Norman. (2003) Analysing Discourse - textual research for social research. New York: Routledge
Foucault, Michel (1969). L'archéologie du savoir. Paris: Gallimard.
Linell, Per (1998). Approaching Dialogue. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. 1998.
Maingueneau, Dominique. (1991). L'analyse du discours. Paris: Hachette.
Voloshinov, V.N (1973) Marxism and the Philosophy of language. New York & London: Seminar Press
Ernesto Laclau (Spanish: [laˈklau]; 6 October 1935 – 13 April 2014) was an Argentine political theorist often described as post-Marxist.
He studied History in Buenos Aires, graduating from the Universidad Nacional de Buenos Aires in 1964, and received a PhD from the University of Essex in 1977.
Since 1986 he served as Professor of Political Theory at the University of Essex, where he founded and directed for many years the graduate programme in Ideology and Discourse Analysis, as well as the Centre for Theoretical Studies in the Humanities and the Social Sciences. Under his directorship, the Ideology and Discourse Analysis programme has provided the suitable research framework for the development of a distinct type of discourse analysis that draws on post-structuralist theory (especially the work of Lacan, Foucault, Derrida, and Barthes) in order to articulate innovative analyses of concrete political phenomena (identities, discourses and hegemonies). This theoretical and analytical orientation is today known as the 'Essex School of discourse analysis'.
Over the years, Laclau lectured extensively in many universities in North America, South America, Western Europe, Australia, and South Africa. Most recently he has held positions at SUNY Buffalo and Northwestern University, both in the US.
His long-term partner was Chantal Mouffe. He died, of a heart attack, in Seville in 2014.

Biography
Laclau studied History at the University of Buenos Aires and was a member of the PSIN (Socialist Party of the National Left) until 1969, when the British historian Eric Hobsbawm supported his entrance to Oxford. He had close links with Jorge Abelardo Ramos, the founder of the PSIN, although he declared in 2005 that the latter then evolved in a direction he did not appreciate. In the same interview, he stated that he came from a Yrigoyenista family, and that the peronist politician Arturo Jauretche, a strong opponent of Justo's dictatorship during the Infamous Decade of the 1930s, was a close friend of his father.
In his later years, he had close ties with the Argentine Socialist Confederation (Spanish: Confederación Socialista Argentina), while in Argentina he is associated with Peronism.
Work
Laclau's early work was influenced by Althusserian Marxism and focused on issues debated within Neo-Marxist circles in the 1970s, including the role of the state, the dynamics of capitalism beyond reductionist models, the importance of Gramsci's theory of hegemony, etc. Laclau's most important book is arguably Hegemony and Socialist Strategy, which he co-authored with Chantal Mouffe. Their thought is usually described as post-Marxist as they were both politically active in the social and student movements of the 1960s and thus tried to link new emerging political identities with a democratic socialist imaginary. They rejected Marxist economic determinism and the notion of class struggle being the only determining antagonism in society. Instead, on the basis of recognising the plurality of antagonisms operating in society, they put forward a project of "radical and plural democracy". In his more recent work and under the increasing influence of Lacanian psychoanalytic theory, Laclau has returned to a topic preoccupying him from his early years, that of populism. His latest views were well reflected in an interview given to Intellectum journal in 2008.
In "On Populist Reason", Laclau talks about the nature of populism in political discourse and the creation of popular political identities such as "the people" or "proletariat" and their role in serving collective political actors and ideologies. Laclau identifies the basis of populism in the creation of "empty signifiers": words and ideas that constitute and express an "equivalential chain". This "equivalential chain" is made possible only when a list of unfulfilled political demands create a 'logic of equivalence" between them. The notions of populism are essential, according to Laclau, to the discussion of issues of representation and democracy.
Books
Politics and Ideology in Marxist Theory (NLB, 1977)
Hegemony and Socialist Strategy (with Chantal Mouffe) (Verso, 1985)
New Reflections on the Revolution of our Time (Verso, 1990)
The Making of Political Identities (editor) (Verso, 1994)
Emancipation(s) (Verso, 1996)
Contingency, Hegemony, Universality (with Judith Butler and Slavoj Žižek) (Verso, 2000)
On Populist Reason (Verso, 2005)
The Rhetorical Foundations of Society" (Verso, 2014)
See also
Essex School of discourse analysis
List of deconstructionists
Richard JF Day
Louis Althusser
Antonio Gramsci
Post-Marxism
Slavoj Žižek
Saul Newman
Peronism
References

Further reading
Anna Marie Smith, Laclau and Mouffe: The Radical Democratic Imaginary, London: Routledge, 1998.
David Howarth, Discourse, Milton Keynes: Open University Press, 2000.
Louise Philips and Marianne Jorgensen, Discourse Analysis as Theory and Method, London: Sage, 2002.
David Howarth, Aletta Norval and Yannis Stavrakakis (eds), Discourse Theory and Political Analysis, Manchester: Manchester University Press, 2002.
Simon Critchley and Oliver Marchart (eds), Laclau: A Critical Reader, London: Routledge, 2004.
Warren Breckman, Adventures of the Symbolic: Postmarxism and Radical Democracy, New York: Columbia University Press, 2013
David Howarth and Jacob Torfing (eds) Discourse Theory in European Politics, Houndmills: Palgrave, 2005.
External links
Centre for Theoretical Studies, University of Essex Includes Laclau papers on populism and the philosophical roots of discourse theory
Ideology and Discourse Analysis network
Hearts, Minds and Radical Democracy Interview with Ernesto Laclau and Chantal Mouffe
Entrevista a Ernesto Laclau sobre el juego de la política
Curriculum Vitae
God Only Knows 1991 article in Marxism Today
Socialist strategy: where next? 1981 article in Marxism Today
In linguistics and the philosophy of mind, a locutionary act is the performance of an utterance, and hence of a speech act. The term equally refers to the surface meaning of an utterance because, according to J. L. Austin's posthumous "How To Do Things With Words", a speech act should be analysed as a locutionary act (i.e. the actual utterance and its ostensible meaning, comprising phonetic, phatic and rhetic acts corresponding to the verbal, syntactic and semantic aspects of any meaningful utterance), as well as an illocutionary act (the semantic 'illocutionary force' of the utterance, thus its real, intended meaning), and in certain cases a further perlocutionary act (i.e. its actual effect, whether intended or not).
For example, my saying to you "Don't go into the water" (a locutionary act with distinct phonetic, syntactic and semantic features) counts as warning you not to go into the water (an illocutionary act), and if you heed my warning I have thereby succeeded in persuading you not to go into the water (a perlocutionary act). This taxonomy of speech acts was inherited by John R. Searle, Austin's pupil at Oxford and subsequently an influential exponent of speech act theory.
In linguistics and discourse analysis, semantic macrostructures are the overall, global meanings of discourse, usually also described in terms of topic, gist, or upshot. These semantic macrostructures (global meanings or topics) are typically expressed in for instance the headlines and lead of a news report, or the title and the abstract of a scholarly article. Macrostructures of discourse are distinguished from its microstructures, that is, the local structures of words, clauses, sentences or turns in conversation. Macrostructures may be derived from microstructures by operations such as abstracting, that is, leaving out or summarizing specific details. Semantic macrostructures or topics define what is called the global coherence of discourse.
Mediated Discourse Analysis (MDA) (coined by late Ron Scollon) is a specialised form of linguistic discourse analysis (similar to Critical Discourse Analysis)--it mediates discourse, agency, and practice into what Scollon calls a "nexus of practice." The goal of MDA is to focus on discourse in action, as opposed to discourse as action, thus making discourse analysts responsible for applying discourse into various practical and useful contexts.
See also
mediated communication
Interactional sociolinguistics
References
Ronald Scollon (2001). Mediated discourse: the nexus of practice. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-24882-2. 
Ronald Scollon; Suzanne B. K. Scollon (2004). Nexus analysis: discourse and the emerging internet. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-32062-7. 
Jones, Rodney and Norris, Sigrid, eds. (2006) Discourse in Action: Introducing Mediated Discourse Analysis. Abingdon, Oxon: Routledge.
Mediated Stylistics is a new and still emerging approach to the analysis of media texts (e.g. news programs, newspaper articles). Its aims are twofold: first, to take seriously the idea that media texts (e.g. news programs, newspaper articles) involve 'the construction of stories by other means'; and second to take seriously the idea that in an age marked by digital connectivity, media texts are inherently interactive phenomena. To meet these aims, mediated stylistics has brought together the analytic toolkits of discursive psychology - which is finely attuned to the contextual specificities of interaction  - and stylistics - which is finely attuned to the grammatical/rhetorical/narratorial specificities of texts as texts. Recent research in which mediated stylistics has been put to work, for instance, has shown that and how mediated representation of issues like sexism, sexualisation, alleged rape and violence against women can differ, and differ in rhetorically consequential ways, from the original un-mediated source material.

History
As a broadly ethnomethodological approach, mediated stylistics is strongly inﬂuenced by discursive psychology (DP), as well as the sociology of scientiﬁc knowledge (SSK), membership categorization analysis (MCA)  and the work of stylisticians like Mick Short, Paul Simpson  and Lesley Jeffries  in which the analytic utility of stylistics to and for an understanding of data other than strictly 'literary' texts becomes immediately apparent. What unites these approaches is their rejection of a particularly widespread understanding of language in which words-in-here-on-a-page name things-out-there-in-the-world. Because this understanding assumes a natural link between descriptions and the events so described it also assumes a non-linguistic sense of the world as the ﬁnal arbiter of the in/accuracy of descriptions. For DP, SSK and MCA, however, there can be no socially meaningful sense of the non-linguistic without the founding, constitutive force of language. Although language might not be all there is in the world, it is, nevertheless, all there is in the world that allows for the world to become accountable and knowable to ourselves and others. And once you reject — as these approaches reject — the possibility of some non-linguistic arbiter of accuracy, it follows that all descriptions (whether those we decide to treat as accurate or those we do not) have to be understood as the products of particular, locally speciﬁc contexts. The issue is no longer whether mediated texts transmit in/accurate in-formation, but how they act as “vehicles for action”, where such actions might include defending someone, accusing someone, confessing to something, or any number of other things besides. It is here that we see how an ethnomethodological approach to language opens the possibility for a mediated stylistics; that is, for analytical tools traditionally associated with stylistics to be adopted for use within media studies. A journalist writing a news article about ‘real events’ and a novelist constructing a believably-real-yet-imaginary-world may well be working with diﬀerent materials, but they are both engaged in essentially the same kind of literary task: building descriptive vehicles with the potential to pull oﬀ a certain set of contextually speciﬁc actions such as detailing, characterizing, informing, confessing, defending, accusing, and so on, in what constitutes an inﬁnitely extendable list of other such social actions.
Study
So what does this all of this mean in practice? Traditionally, stylistics has treated literature — whether institutionally sanctioned Literature (with a capital "L") or more popular non-canonical forms of literary writing — as its primary focus. Mediated stylistics, however, in taking seriously the idea that journalists are the “professional storytellers of our age”, orients towards the types of creativity and innovation in language-use that are required in and for the construction of mediated stories. This shift in empirical focus requires a shift in analytic focus. For although literary and mediated texts both tell stories, they do so in diﬀering ways. In that stylistics asks how certain aesthetic eﬀects are achieved through the language of a literary text, it is able to assume that the text in question represents a story in which characters, plot, events, etc. have all been constructed by that text’s author (e.g. Burton’s analysis of Plath’s prose, 1982). Media texts, on the other hand, almost always involve attempts to translate — or recontextualise — characters, plots and events that have already been constructed elsewhere, by others, in a diﬀerent context. Unlike other forms of stylistics, then, mediated stylistics is interested not in one-oﬀ stories, but in the various iterations of a story that are reproduced over time and across various contexts. This is in contrast to the extremely insightful, but different, form of stylistics developed by Leslie Jeffries and known as critical stylistics.
An example
One recent example is Attenborough's article - Rape is rape (except when it's not): the media, recontextualisation and violence against women (2014). This article studies mediated reportage of the charges of rape and sexual molestation made against Julian Assange, the editor-in-chief of the organisation Wikileaks, in late 2010. This event was rich with recontextualising possibilities: during the appeal hearing in which Assange’s lawyers challenged the warrant for his arrest, transcripts of the witness statements that had led to the warrant being issued were leaked online. Media commentators took this opportunity to build their own recontextualised descriptions of what actually happened as the (apparently) factual starting points for their own, subsequent evaluations of the (un)fairness and/or (il)legitimacy of the allegations. An analysis of media reports in which those witness statements were passed-on to the public subsequently reveals the textual practices through which Assange’s allegedly violent actions were often recontextualised such that their status as violent was readably downgraded, mitigated or even deleted.
Further reading
Ashmore, M. (1993) The theatre of the blind: starring a Promethean prankster, a phoney phenomenon, a prism, a pocket, and a piece of wood. Social Studies of Science, 23(1): 67–106
Attenborough, F. (2014) 'Rape is rape (except when it's not): the media, recontextualisation and violence against women', Journal of Language Aggression and Conflict, 2(2): 183-203.
Attenborough, F. (2014) Jokes, pranks, blondes and banter: recontextualising sexism in the British print press, Journal of Gender Studies, 23(2): 137-154.
Attenborough, F., 2012b. Severe acute respiratory syndrome and the rhetorical construction of ‘bad’ scientiﬁc work. Public understanding of science, 21 (2), 211–225.
Bou-Franch, P. (2014) 'An introduction to language aggression against women', Journal of Language Aggression and Conflict, 2(2): 177-182.
Carter, R. (2004) Language and Creativity: the art of common talk. London: Routledge.
Davies, M. (2007) The attraction of opposites: the ideological function of conventional and created oppositions in the construction of in-groups and out-groups in news texts, in L. Jeffries, D. McIntyre, D. Bousfield (eds.) Stylistics and Social Cognition. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Jeffries, L. (2007) Journalistic constructions of Blair's "apology" for the intelligence leading to the Iraq War, in S. Johnson, A. Ensslin (eds.) Language in the Media: Representations, Identities, Ideologies. London: Continuum, pp. 48–69.
Jeffries, L. (2010) Critical Stylistics. Basingstoke: Palgrave.
Short, M. (1988) Speech presentation, the novel and the press, in W. van Peer (ed.) The taming of the text: explorations in language, literature and culture. London: Routledge
Simpson, P. (1993) Language, ideology and point of view. London: Routledge.
Simpson, P. (2004) Stylistics. London: Routledge
Useful journals
Language and Literature
Journal of Literary Semantics
Discourse and Communication
ReferencesIn linguistic pragmatics, the term metalocutionary act is sometimes used for a speech act that refers to the forms and functions of the discourse itself rather than continuing the substantive development of the discourse.
The term metalocutionary act originated as metalocution (Gibbon 1976, 1983) in functional descriptions of intonation in English and German, by analogy with locution (locutionary act), illocution (illocutionary act) and perlocution (perlocutionary act) in Speech Act Theory. The term metalocutionary act has developed a more general meaning and may include, for example, quotation acts and comments on preceding speech acts.
Definition: Metalocutionary deixis is the denotation (in the strict semantic sense) of utterance constituents at points and over intervals in the temporal structure of utterances by means of prosodic deictic indices such as pitch accents, intonation contours and boundary tones.
In the prosodic literature, "mark" is often used informally instead of the strict "denote". The metalocutionary functions are structural rather than attitudinal or emotional functions of prosody. A precursor of the concept of metalocutionary function is found in the configurational function of intonation proposed by the Prague School of linguistics (e.g. Trubetzkoy 1939), with the more specific culmination function and delimitation function, as in accentuation on the one hand and domain or boundary marking on the other.
Example 1: In orthography, e.g. Are Henry and Catherine REALly going?, capitalisation (or other highlighting) of the syllable real and punctuation (including the initial capital a and the interrogation point) are orthographic metalocutions: capitalisation denotes the syllable real and the word really, of which the syllable is a constituent, while the punctuation denotes the domain of the question function.
Example 2: In the pronunciation of Are Henry and Catherine REALly going? (where the syllable real may receive a pitch accent, and the interrogation point may be rendered with a rising final tone and a globally rising pitch contour), the pitch accent is a prosodic metalocution which denotes the syllable real and the word really, and the final rising pitch is a prosodic metalocution which denotes the end portion of the utterance (as well as a non-final or question speech act); the global rising pitch is a prosodic metalocution which denotes an intonation domain.
References
Gibbon, Dafydd (1976). Perspectives of Intonation Analysis. Bern: Lang.
Gibbon, Dafydd (1983). "Intonation in context: an essay on metalocutionary deixis". In: Gisa Rauh (ed.), Essays on deixis. Tübingen: Gunter Narr Verlag.
Trubetzkoy, Nikolai Sergeevič (1939). Grundzüge der Phonologie (Travaux du Cercle Linguistique de Prague 7). Prague.Metaphor identification procedure (MIP) is a method for identifying metaphorically used words in discourse. It can be used to recognize metaphors in spoken and written language. Mainly intended for scholars, it can be helpful in empirical research. The procedure aims to determine the relationship of a particular lexical unit in the discourse and recognize its use in a particular context as possibly metaphorical. Since many words can be considered metaphorical in different contexts, MIP requires a clear distinction between words that convey metaphorical meaning and those that do not, despite the fact that language generally differs in the degrees of metaphoricity. A group of scholars called Pragglejaz started the Pragglejaz procedure in 2007, and elaborated on a detailed method of identifying metaphors. Note that this method does not deal with an author's possible intention to express metaphorical meanings, and does not identify metaphorical utterances and conventional linguistic metaphors. It also does not indicate ordinary procedures people use to determine metaphors or exclude other possible non-literalness.
References

External links
[1] Academia.edu
Chantal Mouffe (born 17 June 1943 in Charleroi, Belgium) is a Belgian political theorist.



Work
Chantal Mouffe studied at Louvain, Paris and Essex and has worked in many universities throughout the world (in Europe, North America and Latin America). She has also held visiting positions at Harvard, Cornell, Princeton and the CNRS (Paris). During the 1989-1995 period she served as Programme Director at the College International de Philosophie in Paris. She currently holds a professorship at the Department of Politics and International Relations, University of Westminster in the United Kingdom, where she directs the Centre for the Study of Democracy.
She is best known for her contribution to the development – jointly with Ernesto Laclau, with whom she co-authored Hegemony and Socialist Strategy - of the so-called Essex School of discourse analysis, a type of post-marxist political inquiry drawing on Gramsci, post-structuralism and theories of identity, and redefining Left politics in terms of radical democracy.
A prominent critic of ‘deliberative democracy’ (especially in its Rawlsian and Habermasian versions), she is also known for her critical use of the work of Carl Schmitt, mainly the concept of ‘the political’, in proposing a radicalization of modern democracy – what she calls ‘agonistic pluralism’. She has recently developed an interest in highlighting the radical potential of artistic practices.
Publications
(ed.) Gramsci and Marxist Theory. London – Boston: Routledge / Kegan Paul, 1979.
(with Ernesto Laclau) Hegemony and Socialist Strategy: Towards a Radical Democratic Politics. London – New York: Verso, 1985.
(ed.) Dimensions of Radical Democracy: Pluralism, Citizenship, Community. London – New York: Verso, 1992.
The Return of the Political. London – New York: Verso, 1993.
Le politique et ses enjeux. Pour une démocratie plurielle. Paris: La Découverte/MAUSS, 1994.
(ed.) Deconstruction and Pragmatism. London – New York: Routledge, 1996.
(ed.) The Challenge of Carl Schmitt. London – New York: Verso, 1999.
The Democratic Paradox. London – New York: Verso, 2000.
(ed.) Feministische Perspektiven. Wien: Turia + Kant, 2001.
(ed.) The legacy of Wittgenstein: Pragmatism or Deconstruction. Frankfurt am Main – New York: Peter Lang, 2001.
On the Political. Abingdon – New York: Routledge, 2005.
Hegemony, Radical Democracy, and the Political, edited by James Martin, London: Routledge, 2013.
Agonistics: Thinking The World Politically. London – New York: Verso, 2013.
Mouffe C, 1995 ‘Post-marxism: democracy and identity’, Environment and Planning D vol.13 pp. 259–266 ML: P305 E30.
See also
List of deconstructionists
References

Further reading
Anna Marie Smith, Laclau and Mouffe: The Radical Democratic Imaginary, London: Routledge, 1998.
David Howarth, Discourse, Milton Keynes: Open University Press, 2000.
Louise Philips and Marianne Jorgensen, Discourse Analysis as Theory and Method, London: Sage, 2002.
David Howarth, Aletta Norval and Yannis Stavrakakis (eds), Discourse Theory and Political Analysis, Manchester: Manchester University Press, 2002.
Jacob Torfing, New Theories of Discourse: Laclau, Mouffe, Žižek, Oxford: Blackwell, 1999.
External links
Chantal Mouffe's faculty page at University of Westminster
Wittgenstein, Political Theory and Democracy by Chantal Mouffe
Socialist strategy: where next? 1981 article in Marxism Today
‘Deliberative Democracy or Agonistic Pluralism?’
Interview with Chantal Mouffe: “Pluralism is linked to the acceptance of conflict” in Barcelona Metropolis Magazine, Autumn 2010.
‘Artistic Activism and Agonistic Spaces’. 2007 article in Art & Research. Vol 4, n° 1
Interview with Chantal Mouffe: "Populism is a necessity". The European, January 1st, 2014.
Aletta Norval is a South African born political theorist. A prominent member of the Essex School of discourse analysis, she is mainly known for her deconstructionist analysis of Apartheid discourse, for her methodological contributions to discourse analysis and for her work on democratic and poststructuralist political theory.
Norval studied political science at the University of Johannesburg (South Africa) and discourse analysis at Essex University. She received a Masters degree from the University of Johannesburg, and a MA and PhD from the prestigious ‘Ideology and Discourse Analysis’ programme at the University of Essex. Her doctoral thesis, completed under the supervision of Ernesto Laclau, was entitled ‘Accounting for Apartheid: Its Emergence, Logic and Crisis’.
Following her graduation from doctoral studies, Norval started an academic career at the Department of Government at Essex University, where she is currently Professor. She was Director of the PhD Programme in Ideology and Discourse Analysis and co-director of the Centre for Theoretical Studies in the Humanities and the Social Sciences, both founded by Ernesto Laclau.
Her research interests include discourse analysis and deconstruction, contemporary democratic theory, feminist theory, South-African politics, ethnicity and the politics of race. More recently, she has also been working on biometrics, focussing on issues of citizen consent to identity management techniques.
She has authored and co-edited many books and has published numerous articles in journals such as: 'American Political Science Review', 'Ethics & Global Politics', Journal of Political Ideologies; Political Theory; Diacritics; Philosophy and Social Criticism; Constellations; Political Studies; Acta Philosophica; Critical Discourse Studies; British Journal of Political Science.
She was Dean of Postgraduate Research and Education (2012-2013) and has been appointed as Pro-Vice-Chancellor Education at the University of Essex. She is also member of the Privacy Expert Group of the Biometrics Institute, London.

Selected bibliography
Books
'Practices of Freedom: Decentered Governance, Conflict and Democratic Participation', (Cambridge University Press, 2014) (co-edited with Steven Griggs and Hendrik Wagenaar)
Aversive Democracy: Inheritance and Originality in the Democratic Tradition (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2007)
'n Teoretiese Studie van die Metodologie van Kruiskulturele Houdingsmeting (A Theoretical Inquiry into the Methodology of Cross-Cultural Attitude Research) (Pretoria: Human Sciences Research Council, 1984; second edition 1993)
(co-edited with David Howarth and Yannis Stavrakakis) Discourse Theory and Political Analysis (Manchester: Manchester University Press, 2000)
(co-edited with David Howarth) South Africa in Transition: New Theoretical Perspectives (Basingstoke: Macmillan, 1998)
Papers
Norval, Aletta; Glynos, Jason; Howarth, David; Speed, Ewen (August 2009). Discourse analysis: varieties and methods (NCRM/014). Southampton, UK: NCRM: National Centre for Research Methods funded by: ESRC - Economic & Social Research Council.  Pdf version.
References
http://www.cambridge.org/us/academic/subjects/politics-international-relations/political-theory/practices-freedom-decentred-governance-conflict-and-democratic-participation?format=HB
Dr Aletta Norval – Department of Government, University of Essex
Dr Aletta Norval – Cambridge University Press
Short Biography - University of Tilburg
External links
Aletta Norval at the Australasian Summer School in Contemporary Critical Theories
‘Hegemony after Deconstruction’
‘Democratic Identification: A Wittgensteinian Approach’
‘Writing a name in the sky’: Critically Reading Rancière on Democracy - Paper presented to the University of Chicago Political Theory Workshop
A perlocutionary act (or perlocutionary effect) is a speech act, as viewed at the level of its psychological consequences, such as persuading, convincing, scaring, enlightening, inspiring, or otherwise getting someone to do or realize something. This is contrasted with locutionary and illocutionary acts (which are other levels of description, rather than different types of speech acts).
Unlike the notion of locutionary act, which describes the linguistic function of an utterance, a perlocutionary effect is in some sense external to the performance. It may be thought of, in a sense, as the effect of the illocutionary act via the locutionary act. Therefore, when examining perlocutionary acts, the effect on the hearer or reader is emphasized.
As an example, consider the following utterance: "By the way, I have a CD of Debussy; would you like to borrow it?" Its illocutionary function is an offer, while its intended perlocutionary effect might be to impress the listener, or to show a friendly attitude, or to encourage an interest in a particular type of music.

Poetics is the theory of literary forms and literary discourse. It may refer specifically to the theory of poetry, although some speakers use the term so broadly as to denote the concept of "theory" itself.

History
The term "poetics" comes from the Greek ποιητικός poietikos "pertaining to poetry," literally "creative, productive," from ποιητός poietos "made," verbal adjective of ποιεῖν poiein "to make."
Scholar T. V. F. Brogan identifies three major movements in Western poetics over the past 3,000 years, beginning with the formalist, objectivist Aristotelian tradition (see Poetics). During the romantic era, poetics tended toward expressionism and emphasized the perceiving subject. The 20th century witnessed a return to the Aristotelian paradigm, followed by trends toward metacriticality, or the establishment of a theory of poetics.
Eastern poetics developed primarily with reference to the lyric, as opposed to the mimetic.
In literary criticism
Poetics is distinguished from hermeneutics by its focus not on the meaning of a text, but rather its understanding of how a text's different elements come together and produce certain effects on the reader. Most literary criticism combines poetics and hermeneutics in a single analysis, however one or the other may predominate given the text and the aims of the one doing the reading.
See also

List of basic poetry topics
Figure of speech
Stylistic device
Rhetorical device
Meter (poetry)
Allegory
Allusion
Imagery
Musical form
Symbolist poetry
Refrain
Literary theory
History of poetry
Poetics and Linguistics Association
Theopoetics
Notes and references

Further reading
Ciardi, John (1959). How Does a Poem Mean?. Cambridge, MA: The Riverside Press. 
Drew, Elizabeth (1933). Discovering Poetry. New York: W.W. Norton & Company. 
Harmon, William (2003). Classic Writings on Poetry. New York: Columbia University Press. 
Hashmi, Alamgir (2011). "Eponymous Écriture and the Poetics of Reading a Transnational Epic". Dublin Quarterly, 15. 
Hobsbaum, Philip (1996). Metre, Rhythm, and Verse Form. New York: Routledge. ISBN 0-415-12267-8. 
Kinzie, Mary (1999). A Poet's Guide to Poetry. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. ISBN 0-226-43739-6. 
Norman, Charles (1962). Poets on Poetry. New York: Collier Books.  Original texts from 8 English poets before the 20th Century and from 8 20th Century Americans.
Oliver, Mary (1994). A Poetry Handbook. New York: Harcourt Brace & Co. ISBN 0-15-672400-6. 
Oliver, Mary (1998). Rules for the Dance. Boston: Houghton Mifflin. ISBN 0-395-85086-X. 
Pinsky, Robert (1999). The Sounds of Poetry. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux. ISBN 0-374-52617-6. 
Quinn, Arthur (1993). Figures of Speech. Hillsdale: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. ISBN 1-880393-02-6. 
Iturat, Isidro (2010). Poetics. Brazil: Indrisos.com. 
Politeness theory is the theory that accounts for the redressing of the affronts to face posed by face-threatening acts to addressees. First formulated in 1978 by Penelope Brown and Stephen Levinson, politeness theory has since expanded academia’s perception of politeness. Politeness is the expression of the speakers’ intention to mitigate face threats carried by certain face threatening acts toward another (Mills, 2003, p. 6). Another definition is "a battery of social skills whose goal is to ensure everyone feels affirmed in a social interaction". Being polite therefore consists of attempting to save face for another. [This definition reflects a limited conception of (im)politeness. Indeed, it may reflect a hegemonic construction. Face is not endemic to all human cultures when displaying politeness or impoliteness.]

Positive and negative face
Face is the public self image that every adult tries to protect. In their 1978 book chapter, Brown and Levinson defined positive face two ways: as "the want of every member that his wants be desirable to at least some others executors" (Brown & Levinson, 1978, p. 62), or alternately, "the positive consistent self-image or 'personality' (crucially including the desire that this self-image be appreciated and approved of) claimed by interactants" (Brown & Levinson, 1978, p. 61). Negative face was defined as "the want of every 'competent adult member' that his actions be unimpeded by others", or "the basic claim to territories, personal preserves, rights to non-distraction--i.e. the freedom of action and freedom from imposition". Ten years later, Brown characterized positive face by desires to be liked, admired, ratified, and related to positively, noting that one would threaten positive face by ignoring someone. At the same time, she characterized negative face by the desire not to be imposed upon, noting that negative face could be impinged upon by imposing on someone. Positive Face refers to one's self-esteem, while negative face refers to one's freedom to act. The two aspects of face are the basic wants in any social interaction, and so during any social interaction, cooperation is needed amongst the participants to maintain each other's faces.
Face-threatening acts
According to Brown and Levinson, positive and negative face exist universally in human culture. In social interactions, face-threatening acts are at times inevitable based on the terms of the conversation. A face threatening act is an act that inherently damages the face of the addressee or the speaker by acting in opposition to the wants and desires of the other. Most of these acts are verbal; however, they can also be conveyed in the characteristics of speech (such as tone, inflection, etc.) or in non-verbal forms of communication. At minimum, there must be at least one of the face threatening acts associated with an utterance. It is also possible to have multiple acts working within a single utterance.
Negative face-threatening acts
Negative face is threatened when an individual does not avoid or intend to avoid the obstruction of their interlocutor's freedom of action. It can cause damage to either the speaker or the hearer, and makes one of the interlocutors submit their will to the other. Freedom of choice and action are impeded when negative face is threatened.
Damage to the hearer

An act that affirms or denies a future act of the hearer creates pressure on the hearer to either perform or not perform the act.

Examples: orders, requests, suggestions, advice, remindings, threats, or warnings.

An act that expresses the speaker’s sentiments of the hearer or the hearer’s belongings.

Examples: compliments, expressions of envy or admiration, or expressions of strong negative emotion toward the hearer (e.g. hatred, anger, lust).

An act that expresses some positive future act of the speaker toward the hearer. In doing so, pressure has been put on the hearer to accept or reject the act and possibly incur a debt.

Examples: offers, and promises.


Damage to the speaker

An act that shows that the speaker is succumbing to the power of the hearer.

Expressing thanks
Accepting a thank you or apology
Excuses
Acceptance of offers
A response to the hearer’s violation of social etiquette
The speaker commits himself to something he or she does not want to do


Positive face-threatening acts
Positive face is threatened when the speaker or hearer does not care about their interactor’s feelings, wants, or does not want what the other wants. Positive face threatening acts can also cause damage to the speaker or the hearer. When an individual is forced to be separated from others so that their well being is treated less importantly, positive face is threatened.
Damage to the hearer

An act that expresses the speaker’s negative assessment of the hearer’s positive face or an element of his/her positive face. The speaker can display this disapproval in two ways. The first approach is for the speaker to directly or indirectly indicate that he dislikes some aspect of the hearer’s possessions, desires, or personal attributes. The second approach is for the speaker to express disapproval by stating or implying that the hearer is wrong, irrational, or misguided.

Examples: expressions of disapproval (e.g. insults, accusations, complaints), contradictions, disagreements, or challenges.

An act that expresses the speaker’s indifference toward the addressee’s positive face.

The addressee might be embarrassed for or fear the speaker.
Examples: excessively emotional expressions.
The speaker indicates that he doesn’t have the same values or fears as the hearer
Examples: disrespect, mention of topics which are inappropriate in general or in the context.
The speaker indicates that he is willing to disregard the emotional well being of the hearer.
Examples: belittling or boasting.
The speaker increases the possibility that a face-threatening act will occur. This situation is created when a topic is brought up by the speaker that is a sensitive societal subject.
Examples: topics that relate to politics, race, religion.
The speaker indicates that he is indifferent to the positive face wants of the hearer. This is most often expressed in obvious non-cooperative behavior.
Examples: interrupting, non-sequiturs.
The speaker misidentifies the hearer in an offensive or embarrassing way. This may occur either accidentally or intentionally. Generally, this refers to the misuse of address terms in relation to status, gender, or age.
Example: Addressing a young woman as "ma’am" instead of "miss."


Damage to the speaker

An act that shows that the speaker is in some sense wrong, and unable to control himself.

Apologies: In this act, speaker is damaging his own face by admitting that he regrets one of his previous acts.
Acceptance of a compliment
Inability to control one’s physical self
Inability to control one’s emotional self
Self-humiliation
Confessions


Politeness strategies
Politeness strategies are used to formulate messages in order to save the hearer’s positive face when face-threatening acts are inevitable or desired. Brown and Levinson outline four main types of politeness strategies: bald on-record, negative politeness, positive politeness, and off-record (indirect).
Bald on-record
Bald on-record strategies usually do not attempt to minimize the threat to the hearer’s face, although there are ways that bald on-record politeness can be used in trying to minimize face-threatening acts implicitly. Often using such a strategy will shock or embarrass the addressee, and so this strategy is most often utilized in situations where the speaker has a close relationship with the audience, such as family or close friends. Brown and Levinson outline various cases in which one might use the bald on-record strategy, including:

Instances in which threat minimizing does not occur

Great urgency or desperation
Watch out!
Speaking as if great efficiency is necessary
Hear me out:...
Task-oriented
Pass me the hammer.
Little or no desire to maintain someone's face
Don't forget to clean the blinds!
Doing the face-threatening act is in the interest of the hearer
Your headlights are on!

Instances in which the threat is minimized implicitly

Welcomes
Come in.
Offers
Leave it, I'll clean up later.
Eat!


Positive politeness
Positive politeness strategies seek to minimize the threat to the hearer’s positive face. They are used to make the hearer feel good about himself, his interests or possessions, and are most usually used in situations where the audience knows each other fairly well. In addition to hedging and attempts to avoid conflict, some strategies of positive politeness include statements of friendship, solidarity, compliments, and the following examples from Brown and Levinson:
Attend to H’s interests, needs, wants

You look sad. Can I do anything?

Use solidarity in-group identity markers

Heh, mate, can you lend me a dollar?

Be optimistic

I’ll just come along, if you don’t mind.

Include both speaker (S) and hearer (H) in activity

If we help each other, I guess, we’ll both sink or swim in this course.

Offer or promise

If you wash the dishes, I’ll vacuum the floor.

Exaggerate interest in H and his interests

That’s a nice haircut you got; where did you get it?

Avoid Disagreement

Yes, it’s rather long; not short certainly.

Joke

Wow, that’s a whopper!

Negative politeness
Negative politeness strategies are oriented towards the hearer’s negative face and emphasize avoidance of imposition on the hearer. These strategies presume that the speaker will be imposing on the listener and there is a higher potential for awkwardness or embarrassment than in bald on record strategies and positive politeness strategies. Negative face is the desire to remain autonomous so the speaker is more apt to include an out for the listener, through distancing styles like apologies. Examples from Brown and Levinson include:
Be indirect

Would you know where Oxford Street is?

Use hedges or questions

Perhaps, he might have taken it, maybe.
Could you please pass the rice?

Be pessimistic

You couldn’t find your way to lending me a thousand dollars, could you?
So I suppose some help is out of the question, then?

Minimize the imposition

It’s not too much out of your way, just a couple of blocks.

Use obviating structures, like nominalizations, passives, or statements of general rules

I hope offense will not be taken.
Visitors sign the ledger.
Spitting will not be tolerated.

Apologize

I’m sorry; it’s a lot to ask, but can you lend me a thousand dollars?

Use plural pronouns

We regret to inform you.

Favor seeking, or a speaker asking the hearer for a favor, is a common example of negative politeness strategies in use. Held observes three main stages in favor-seeking: the preparatory phase, the focal phase, and the final phase:
The preparatory phase is when the favor-seeking is preceded by elaborate precautions against loss of face to both sides. It often involves signals of openings and markers to be used to clarify the situation (e.g. ‘You see,’ or ‘so,’). The request is often softened, made less direct, and imposing (e.g. past continuous ‘I was wondering’; informal tag ‘What d’you reckon?). The speaker must also reduce his own self-importance in the matter and exaggerate the hearer’s (down-scaling compliments).
The focal stage is subdivided into elements such as asker’s reasons or constraints (e.g. ‘I’ve tried everywhere but can’t get one’), the other’s face (e.g. ‘You’re the only person I can turn to’), and more.
The third stage is the final stage which consists of anticipatory thanks, promises, and compliments (e.g. ‘I knew you would say yes. You’re an angel.’).
An example that is given by McCarthy and Carter  is the following dialogue from the Australian television soap opera, "Neighbours":
Clarrie: So I said to him, forget your books for one night, throw a party next weekend.
Helen: A party at number 30! What will Dorothy say about that?
Clarrie: Well, what she doesn't know won't hurt her. Of course, I'll be keeping my eye on things, and (SIGNAL OF OPENING) that brings me to my next problem. (EXPLAIN PROBLEM) You see, these young people, they don't want an old codger like me poking my nose in, so I'll make myself scarce, but I still need to be closer to hand, you see. So, (ASK FAVOR) I was wondering, would it be all right if I came over here on the night? What d'you reckon?
Helen: Oh, Clarrie, I...
Clarrie: Oh (MINIMIZATION) I'd be no bother. (REINFORCE EXPLANATION) It'd mean a heck of a lot to those kids.
Helen: All right.
Clarrie: (THANK WITH BOOST) I knew you'd say yes. You're an angel, Helen.
Helen: Ha! (laughs)
All of this is done in attempt to avoid a great deal of imposition on the hearer and is concerned with proceeding towards a goal in the smoothest way and with sensitivity to one’s interlocutors. An English (‘Excuse me, sir, could you please close the window’) is associated with the avoidance or downplaying of an imposition; the more we feel we might be imposing, the more deferential we might be. It is clearly a strategy for negative politeness and the redressing of a threat to negative face, through things like favor-seeking.
Off-record (indirect)
The final politeness strategy outlined by Brown and Levinson is the indirect strategy; This strategy uses indirect language and removes the speaker from the potential to be imposing. For example, a speaker using the indirect strategy might merely say “wow, it’s getting cold in here” insinuating that it would be nice if the listener would get up and turn up the thermostat without directly asking the listener to do so.
Choice of strategy
Paul Grice argues that all conversationalists are rational beings who are primarily interested in the efficient conveying of messages. Brown and Levinson use this argument in their politeness theory by saying that rational agents will choose the same politeness strategy as any other would under the same circumstances to try to mitigate face. They show the available range of verbal politeness strategies to redress loss of face. Face-threatening acts have the ability to mutually threaten face, therefore rational agents seek to avoid face-threatening acts or will try to use certain strategies to minimize the threat.
Speaker (S) will weigh:
the want to communicate the content of the face-threatening act in question
the want to be efficient or urgent
the want to maintain H's face to any degree
In most cooperative circumstances where 3. is greater than 2., S will want to minimize the face-threatening act.
The greater potential for loss of face requires greater redressive action. If the potential for loss of face is too great, the speaker may make the decision to abandon the face-threatening acts completely and say nothing.
The number next to each strategy corresponds to the danger-level of the particular face-threatening act. The more dangerous the particular face-threatening act is, the more S will tend to use a higher numbered strategy.
No redressive action

Bald On-Record- leaves no way for H to minimize the face-threatening act.


Positive Redressive action

S satisfies a wide range of H’s desires not necessarily related to the face-threatening act.
Shows interest in H
Claims common ground with H
Seeks agreement
Gives sympathy



Negative Redressive action

S satisfies H’s desires to be unimpeded—the want that is directly challenged by the face-threatening act.
Be conventionally indirect
Minimize imposition on H
Beg forgiveness
Give deference

This implies that the matter is important enough for S to disturb H


Off-Record

S has the opportunity to evade responsibility by claiming that H’s interpretation of the utterance as a face-threatening act is wrong


Don't do the face-threatening act.
Payoffs associated with each strategy
In deciding which strategy to use, the speaker runs through the individual payoffs of each strategy.
Bald on record


enlists public pressure
S gets credit for honesty, outspokenness which avoids the danger of seeming manipulative
S avoids danger of being misunderstood


Positive Politeness


minimizes threatening aspect by assuring that S considers to be of the same kind with H

criticism may lose much of its sting if done in a way that asserts mutual friendship

when S includes himself equally as a participant in the request or offer, it may lessen the potential for face-threatening act debt

“Let’s get on with dinner” to a husband in front of the TV



Negative Politeness


Helps avoid future debt by keeping social distance and not getting too familiar with the addressee
pays respect or deference by assuming that you may be intruding on the hearer in return for the face-threatening act.

"I don't mean to bother you, but can I ask a quick question?"



Off record


get credit for being tactful, non-coercive
avoid responsibility for the potentially face-damaging interpretation
give the addressee an opportunity to seem to care for S because it tests H's feelings towards S

If S wants H to close the window, he may say "It's cold in here." If H answers "I'll go close the window" then he is responding to this potentially threatening act by giving a “gift” to the original speaker and therefore S avoids the potential threat of ordering H around and H gets credit for being generous or cooperative



Don’t Do the face-threatening act.


S avoids offending H at all
S also fails to achieve his desired communication
no overt examples exist


Shortcomings of Politeness Theory
While the theory does shed light on how individuals communicate to resolve face threat, weaknesses in the theory have been noted:
1. Cross-Cultural Validity: Although everyone has face wants, there are deliberate ways people approach these processes. They seek power, distance, and rank in contrasting manners. Some of this may be due to diverse “knowledge and values” in their society (Goldsmith, 2006, p. 231). 2. The Five Politeness Strategies Are Not Mutually Exclusive: Some claim that a few of these techniques may be used in more than one situation, such as positive and negative face work (Goldsmith, 2006, p. 231). 3. Nonverbal Aspects of Communication: Sometimes nonverbal actions speak louder than verbal communication and might alter how the politeness strategy is interpreted (Goldsmith, 2006, p. 232). 4. Sequence of the Order of Actions: The order of the conversation may dictate whether a face threat is seen more negatively (Goldsmith, 2006, p. 232). Individual Differences: An individual may have a pattern or way of communicating that they have habitually used in the past. Mood may also drive how they choose to respond to a situation (Goldsmith, 2006, p. 232).
While these are a few concerns of scholars, there are other considerations as well: For example, some researchers feel that the ranking order of the politeness strategies could be rearranged or interpreted in varied ways depending on the context. As well, scholars suggest power differences vary between strangers and acquaintances, which in turn, shape the effects of the politeness strategies. Social similarity and intimacy are other aspects to consider, as these connections create an increased awareness of the other person’s request and minimize the outcome of the face-threatening act (Goldsmith, 2006, pp. 231-232).
Strengths of Politeness Theory
Despite some shortcomings in the theory, it cannot be argued that the Politeness Theory is certainly a unique area of study within the communication field; it is very applicable and helpful in guiding individuals in ways to improve their speech and actions (Goldsmith, 2006, p. 232). Two qualities in particular stand out: 1. Good Heuristic Value: This theory has motivated scholars to implement more research into grasping these ideas or finding alternatives to this way of thinking (Goldsmith, 2006, p. 232). 2. Broad Scope: This theory considers factors that play a role in the field of communication such as “language, identity, relational definition . . . social power, distance, and culture” (Goldsmith, 2006, p. 232).
New Research/Future Possibilities
Although the Politeness Theory originated from the curiosity of linguistics and language forming, scholars are beginning to see its other benefits: its ability to not only help with interpersonal relationships, but also workplace environments. One study by Cynthia Dunn (2011) observed a Japanese business that required etiquette training for their new employers. Employers were taught the company’s definition of politeness; they were expected to incorporate these beliefs into their day-to-day behavior, such as “kindness,” “consideration for others,” and “deference and respect” (Dunn, 2011, pp. 227-228, 239). However, self-presentation was also a critical feature employers wanted their employees to improve upon. An attractive self-presentation through various nonverbals and word choice would not only reflect the individual’s politeness but the corporation’s as well (Dunn, 2011, p. 240). This decision had very positive consequences in the workplace environment. Through new studies there is the possibility that the Politeness Theory may penetrate deeper areas. For example, maybe more businesses will begin to take on these concepts and incorporate them into their discussion and conflict-resolution strategies. These could be effective in achieving long-term goals. Whatever the case may be, the Politeness Theory has a solid foundation in the field of communication and will certainly contribute positively to the assimilation of language and civility.
Sociological variables
Take into consideration three sociological factors when deciding whether and how to use the various strategies in real life situations
Depends on three factors:
Social distance between parties (symmetric relation)

Distinguish kin or friend from a stranger with whom you may be of the same social status, but who is still separated by social distance
Different face-threatening acts are used depending on the social distance between interlocutors
Example: We may use less elaborate positive strategies or we may choose to use positive rather than negative politeness when speaking with family


Power relations between parties (asymmetric relation)

we are inclined to speak to our social equals differently than those whose status is higher or lower than our own in a given situation
Example: If a professor is working in her office and people are being very loud and disruptive in the next room, she will go over there and tell them to be quiet but the way she does it will differ depending on who it is

If they are students she will use the bald on-record strategy to make sure there is no confusion in what she is asking

Example: “Stop talking so loud!”

If they are colleagues she will claim common ground with them using the positive politeness strategy or frame an indirect request for them to stop talking

Example: “I’m working on a lecture and it’s really hard to concentrate with all this noise.”

If they are really high status directors of the department she may end up saying nothing at all or apologize for interrupting them

Example: No face-threatening act




The absolute ranking of the threat of the face-threatening act

Some impositions are greater than others. Highly imposing acts like requests demand more redress to mitigate their increased threat level.


Further reading
Brown, Penelope and Stephen C. Levinson. 1987. Politeness: Some universals in language usage. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. [First published 1978 as part of Ester N. Goody (ed.): Questions and Politeness.]
Cameron, Deborah. 2001. Working with Spoken Discourse. Sage Productions
Coulmas, Florian. 1998. The handbook of sociolinguistics. Wiley-Blackwell.
Dunn, C. D. (2011). Formal forms or verbal strategies? politeness theory and japanese
business etiquette training. Journal of Pragmatics, 43(15), 3643-3654. doi:10.1016/j.pragma.2011.06.003
Foley, William. 1997. Anthropological Linguistics: An introduction. Blackwell.
Goldsmith, D. J. (2006). Brown and Levinson’s politeness theory. In B. Whaley & W. Samter (Eds.) Explaining communication: Contemporary theories and exemplars (pp. 219-236). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Goffman, Erving. 1955. On Face-Work: An analysis of ritual elements in social interaction, Psychiatry: Journal of Interpersonal Relations 18:3, pp. 213–231 [reprinted in Interaction Ritual, pp. 5–46].
Lakoff, R. 1973. The logic of Politeness; or minding your p's and q's. Papers from the 9th Regional Meeting, Chicago Linguistics Society. Chicago: Chicago Linguistics Society.
Schiffrin, Deborah. 1994. Approaches to Discourse. Wiley-Blackwell.
Yule, George. 1996. Pragmatics. Oxford University Press.
See also
Politeness
Speech act
Face
Complimentary language and gender
Cooperative principle
Gricean maxims
Erving Goffman
Stephen C. Levinson
Face (social concept)
Face saving
Facework
References
^ a b c d e f g Foley, William. 1997. Anthropological Linguistics: An introduction. Blackwell. ISBN 978-0-631-15122-7
^ Mills, Sara. 2003. Gender and Politeness. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r Brown, Penelope and Stephen C. Levinson. 1987. Politeness: Some universals in language usage. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-31355-1
^ Coates, Jennifer. 1998. Language and Gender: A Reader. Wiley-Blackwell. ISBN 978-0-631-19595-5
^ a b Carter, Ronald and McCarthy, Michael. 1994. Language as Discourse- Perspectives for Language Teaching. Longman Publishing, New York. ISBN 0-582-084245
^ 1975. "Logic and conversation". In Cole, P. and Morgan, J. (eds.) Syntax and semantics, vol 3. New York: Academic Press.
^ Leech, Geoffrey. 1983.Principles of pragmatics. London: Longman
Recontextualisation is a process that extracts text, signs or meaning from its original context (decontextualisation) in order to introduce it into another context. Since the meaning of texts and signs depend on their context, recontextualisation implies a change of meaning, and often of the communicative purpose too. The linguist Per Linell defines recontextualisation as:

the dynamic transfer-and-transformation of something from one discourse/text-in-context ... to another. 

Linell distinguishes between recontextualisation at three different levels:
intratextual: recontextualisation within the same text, discourse or conversation. Intratextual recontextualisation plays an important part in most discourse in so far as it refers to what have been said before, or anticipates what is to be said. In conversation, for instance, the one part usually infuses what the other part just - or earlier - has said in a new context thus adding new meaning to it. Such turns of decontextualisation and recontextualisation combined with metadiscursive regulation are crucial for the continual unfolding of texts, discourses and conversations.
intertextual: recontextualisation relations to specific texts, discourses or conversations. It is an important aspect of texts that they explicitly or implicitly fetch elements from other texts. The importance of this becomes clear when it is realised the meaning of a word is based on its meaning in other contexts; it could be an encyclopaedia, but more often its meaning stems from contexts in which it is used. See: intertextuality
interdiscursive: recontextualisation between types of discourse, such as genres. In Fairclough, chains of genres is closely connected to interdiscursive recontextualisation. Chains of genres denotes how genres depend on each other's discursive material, e.g. the relation between interviews, transcription of interviews and the analysis of interviews. However, interdiscursive recontextualisation is also abundant between large interdiscursive entities or formation and is part of society's discursive workshare. An example is the import of results from statistic theory into social science with the purpose of testing quantitative analyses. See: interdiscourse
Though recontextualisation often is used within linguistics, it also has interdisciplinary applications. Particularly, in Basil Bernstein's concept of the pedagogic device that consists of three fields: the fields of production, recontextualisation and reproduction. The field of reproduction is the field of schooling institutions. The field of production is the field, where knowledge is produced (often universities). The field of recontextualisation mediates between these two fields. The recontextualisation field "is composed of two sub-fields; namely, the official recontextualising field (ORF) and the pedagogic recontextualising field (PRF). The ORF consists of 'specialized departments and sub-agencies of the State and local educational authorities'. The PRF consists of university departments of education, their research as well as specialised educational media.
Rhetorical scholar John Oddo argues that recontextualization has a future-oriented counterpoint, which he dubs "precontextualization." According to Oddo, precontextualization is a form of anticipatory intertextuality wherein "a text introduces and predicts elements of a symbolic event that is yet to unfold."
See also
Fallacy of quoting out of context
Quote mining
Intertextuality
References

Literature
Attenborough, F. T. (2014) Jokes, pranks, blondes and banter: recontextualising sexism in the British print press. Journal of Gender Studies, 23(3): 137-154.
Bernstein, Basil. (1990) The Social Construction of Pedagogic Discours. In: Class, Codes and Control. Vol IV.
Blommaert, Jan (2005). Discourse - a critical introduction. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Fairclough, Norman. (2003) Analysing Discourse - textual research for social research. New York: Routledge
Linell, Per (1998). Approaching Dialogue. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. 1998.
Oddo, John. (2013). Precontextualization and the Rhetoric of Futurity: Foretelling Colin Powell's U.N. Address on NBC News. Discourse & Communication 7(1): 25-53.
Oddo, John. (2014). Intertextuality and the 24-Hour News Cycle: A Day in the Rhetorical Life of Colin Powell's U.N. Address. East Lansing, MI: Michigan State University Press.In linguistics, a register is a variety of a language used for a particular purpose or in a particular social setting. For example, when speaking in a formal setting contrary to an informal setting, an English speaker may be more likely to use features of prescribed grammar—such as pronouncing words ending in -ing with a velar nasal instead of an alveolar nasal (e.g. "walking", not "walkin'"), choosing more formal words (e.g. father vs. dad, child vs. kid, etc.), and refraining from using words considered nonstandard, such as ain't.
As with other types of language variation, there tends to be a spectrum of registers rather than a discrete set of obviously distinct varieties – numerous registers could be identified, with no clear boundaries between them. Discourse categorisation is a complex problem, and even in the general definition of "register" given above (language variation defined by use not user), there are cases where other kinds of language variation, such as regional or age dialect, overlap. Consequent to this complexity, scholarly consensus has not been reached for the definitions of terms including "register", "field" or "tenor"; different scholars' definitions of these terms are often in direct contradiction of each other. Additional terms including diatype, genre, text types, style, acrolect, mesolect and basilect, among many others, may be used to cover the same or similar ground. Some prefer to restrict the domain of the term "register" to a specific vocabulary (Wardhaugh, 1986) (which one might commonly call jargon), while others argue against the use of the term altogether. These various approaches with their own "register", or set of terms and meanings, fall under disciplines including sociolinguistics, stylistics, pragmatics or systemic functional grammar.

History and use
The term register was first used by the linguist Thomas Bertram Reid in 1956, and brought into general currency in the 1960s by a group of linguists who wanted to distinguish among variations in language according to the user (defined by variables such as social background, geography, sex and age), and variations according to use, "in the sense that each speaker has a range of varieties and choices between them at different times" (Halliday et al., 1964). The focus is on the way language is used in particular situations, such as legalese or motherese, the language of a biology research lab, of a news report, or of the bedroom.
M. A. K. Halliday and R. Hasan (1976) interpret register to be "the linguistic features which are typically associated with a configuration of situational features – with particular values of the field, mode and tenor...". Field for them is "the total event, in which the text is functioning, together with the purposive activity of the speaker or writer; includes subject-matter as one of the elements". Mode is "the function of the text in the event, including both the channel taken by language – spoken or written, extempore or prepared – and its genre, rhetorical mode, as narrative, didactic, persuasive, 'phatic communion', etc." The tenor refers to "the type of role interaction, the set of relevant social relations, permanent and temporary, among the participants involved". These three values – field, mode and tenor – are thus the determining factors for the linguistic features of the text. "The register is the set of meanings, the configuration of semantic patterns, that are typically drawn upon under the specified conditions, along with the words and structures that are used in the realization of these meanings." Register, in the view of M. A. K. Halliday and R. Hasan, is one of the two defining concepts of text. "A text is a passage of discourse which is coherent in these two regards: it is coherent with respect to the context of situation, and therefore consistent in register; and it is coherent with respect to itself, and therefore cohesive."
Register being formality scale
One of the most analyzed areas where the use of language is determined by the situation is the formality scale. Especially in language teaching), the term "register" often forms a shorthand for formal/informal style, although this is an aging definition. Linguistics textbooks may use the term "tenor" instead (Halliday 1978), but increasingly prefer the term "style" – "we characterise styles as varieties of language viewed from the point of view of formality" (Trudgill, 1992) – while defining "registers" more narrowly as specialist language use related to a particular activity, such as academic jargon. There is very little agreement as to how the spectrum of formality should be divided.
In one prominent model, Martin Joos (1961) describes five styles in spoken English:
Frozen: Also referred to as static register. Printed unchanging language, such as Biblical quotations, often contains archaisms. Examples are the Pledge of Allegiance of the United States of America and other "static" vocalizations that are recited in a ritualistic monotone. The wording is exactly the same every time it is spoken.
Formal: One-way participation; no interruption; technical vocabulary or exact definitions are important; includes presentations or introductions between strangers.
Consultative: Two-way participation; background information is provided – prior knowledge is not assumed. "Back-channel behavior" such as "uh huh", "I see", etc. is common. Interruptions are allowed. Examples include teacher/student, doctor/patient, expert/apprentice, etc.
Casual: In-group friends and acquaintances; no background information provided; ellipsis and slang common; interruptions common. This is common among friends in a social setting.
Intimate: Non-public; intonation more important than wording or grammar; private vocabulary. Also includes non-verbal messages. This is most common among family members and close friends.
ISO standard
The ISO has defined standard ISO 12620 on Data Category Registry. This is a registry for registering linguistic terms used in various fields of translation, computational linguistics and natural language processing and defining mappings both between different terms and the same terms used in different systems. The registers identified are:
bench-level register
dialect register
facetious register
formal register
in house register
ironic register
neutral register
slang register
taboo register
technical register
vulgar register
Diatype
The term diatype is sometimes used to describe language variation which is determined by its social purpose (Gregory 1967). In this formulation, language variation can be divided into two categories: dialect, for variation according to user, and diatype for variation according to use (e.g. the specialised language of an academic journal). This definition of diatype is very similar to those of register.
The distinction between dialect and diatype is not always clear; in some cases a language variety may be understood as both a dialect and a diatype.
Diatype is usually analysed in terms of field, the subject matter or setting; tenor, the participants and their relationships; and mode, the channel of communication, such as spoken, written or signed.
See also
Child-directed speech
Diglossia
Elderspeak
Honorific speech in Japanese
Korean speech levels
Literary language
Prestige (sociolinguistics)
Tone (literature)
Vernacular
Code-switching
References

Gregory, M. (1967), "Aspects of Varieties Differentiation", Journal of Linguistics 3: 177–197.
Halliday, M. A. K. and R. Hasan (1976), Cohesion in English, London: Longman.
Halliday, M. A. K. (1964), "Comparison and translation", in M. A. K. Halliday, M. McIntosh and P. Strevens, The linguistic sciences and language teaching, London: Longman.
Halliday, M. A. K. (1978), Language as Social Semiotic: the social interpretation of language and meaning, Edward Arnold: London.
Joos, M. (1961), The Five Clocks, New York: Harcourt, Brace and World.
Quirk, R., Greenbaum S., Leech G., and Svartvik J. (1985), A Comprehensive Grammar of the English Language, Longman, Harcourt.
Reid, T. B. (1956), "Linguistics, structuralism, philology", Archivum Linguisticum 8.
Swales, J. (1990), Genre Analysis. English in Academic and Research Settings, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Trosborg, A. (1997), "Text Typology: Register, Genre and Text Type", in Text Typology and Translation. 3–23. (ed: Anna Trosborg), John Benjamins Publishing Company.
Trudgill, P. (1992), Introducing language and society. London: Penguin.
Wardhaugh, R. (1986), Introduction to Sociolinguistics (2nd ed.), Cambridge: Blackwell
Werlich, E. (1982), A Text Grammar of English, Heidelberg: Quelle & Meyer.
External links
Dr. Wheeler's Spectrum of Formality and Informality
Persistent Identifier of 'register' from the ISO
Semantic discord is the situation where two parties disagree on the definition of a word or several words essential to communicating or formulating any concept at issue. The two parties basically understand two different meanings for the word, or they associate the word with different concepts. Consequently, their disagreeing on these definitions explains why there is a dispute at all. Semantic discord most often arises due to differences in the cultural backgrounds or professional fields of the communicators. Any word or instance of communication that has its effectiveness reduced due to semantic discord is said to be semantically loaded. Semantic disputes are arguments that arise over terms due to semantic discord.
Example
An airplane crashes on a tropical island inhabited by primitives who believe that fire makes everything better. The plane can be repaired if a new propeller could be carved out of local wood. The pilot then attempts to enlist the help of the natives. But as soon as they discover the pilot is attempting to improve the status of the airplane, they set torches to it—because "repair," "improve," "fix" and other such words in this case have different meanings to each of the parties involved. They are semantically loaded terms.
Another example of semantic discord can be found in N-rays under Pathological science.
Avoiding semantic discord is a particular difficulty for language translators.
See also
Semantics
For semantic arguments in linguistics, see verb argument.
A semantic dispute is a disagreement that arises if the parties involved disagree about the definition of a word, not because they disagree on material facts, but rather because they disagree on the definitions of a word (or several words) essential to formulating the claim at issue. It is sometimes held that semantic disputes are not genuine disputes at all. But very often they are regarded as perfectly genuine, e.g., in philosophy. It is also sometimes held that when a semantic dispute arises, the focus of the debate should switch from the original thesis to the meaning of the terms of which there are different definitions (understandings, concepts, etc.). Semantic disputes can result in the logical fallacy of equivocation. In politics, for example, semantic disputes can involve the meaning of words such as liberal, democrat, conservative, republican, progressive, free, welfare or socialist.
See also
Semantic discord
ReferencesSemantic structure analysis (or SSA) is a methodology for systematic description of the intended meaning of natural language, developed by the Summer Institute of Linguistics. The name is also used for Eugene Nida's technique for mapping lexical items from a source language to a receptor language in translation theory.

See also
Semantic analysis
Notes and references

Bibliography
Beekman, John, John C. Callow, and Michael F. Kopesec (1981). The Semantic Structure of Written Communication. Dallas: Summer Institute of Linguistics.
Bouchard, Denis. The Semantics of Syntax: a minimalist approach to grammar.
Bruce, Leslie P. (1998). "The semantics of reconciliation in three languages". Notes on Linguistics 83: 9–34.
Casad, Eugene H., ed., (1996). Cognitive Linguistics in the Redwoods: the expansion of a new paradigm in linguistics. Cognitive Linguistics Research 6. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Erikson, Richard J. (1999). "The damned and the justified in Romans 5:12–21". In Jeffrey T. Reed, Stanley E. Porter (eds). Discourse Analysis and the New Testament: approaches and results. Continuum International Publishing Group.
Ohori, Toshio (1996). "Case Markers and Clause Linkage: toward a semantic typology". In Casad (1996): 693–712.
Palmer, R. F. (ed.). Grammar and Meaning: essays in honor of Sir John Lyons.
Tuggy, David (1996). "The thing is is that people talk that way. The question is is Why?" In Casad (1996): 713-752.
Wierzbicka, Anna. Understanding cultures through their key words: English, Russian, Polish, German, and Japanese.
External links
Semantic Structure Analysis — a bibliography of SIL-authored, theoretical-SSA publications at their official website, Ethnologue.com
Semantic Structure Analysis — a bibliography of SIL-authored, applied-SSA publications, also at Ethnologue.com
Sociocultural linguistics is a term used to encompass a broad range of theories and methods for the study of language in its sociocultural context. Its growing use is a response to the increasingly narrow association of the term sociolinguistics with specific types of research involving the quantitative analysis of linguistic features and their correlation to sociological variables. The term as it is currently used not only clarifies this distinction, but highlights an awareness of the necessity for interdisciplinary approaches to language, culture and society.
The scope of sociocultural linguistics, as described by researchers such as Kira Hall and Mary Bucholtz, is potentially vast, though often includes work drawing from disciplines such as sociolinguistics, linguistic anthropology, discourse analysis, and sociology of language, as well as certain streams of social psychology, folklore studies, media studies, social and literary theory, and the philosophy of language.
Historical precedents
Sociocultural linguists, especially in the United States, take an interdisciplinary approach to the study of language and the social and cultural functions of language use. Although generative and cognitive linguistics have been dominant in the United States since the mid-twentieth century, American linguists have periodically proposed to bring their studies closer to other fields of social inquiry. For example, in 1929, Edward Sapir urged linguists to move beyond diachronic and formal analyses for their own sake and to "become aware of what their science may mean for the interpretation of human conduct in general" (1929:207).

It is peculiarly important that linguists, who are often accused, and accused justly, of failure to look beyond the pretty patterns of their subject matter, should become aware of what their science may mean for the interpretation of human conduct in general. Whether they like it or not, they must become increasingly concerned with the many anthropological, sociological, and psychological problems which invade the field of language. [Sapir 1929:214]

Forty years later, Dell Hymes (1964) lamented that the socially integrated linguistics Sapir had called for was disappearing. Hymes and others worried that new formal approaches, as well as the push for linguistics as an autonomous field, threatened to once again isolate linguists. At the same time, though, the growth of ethnolinguistics and sociolinguistics offered a venue for the socially engaged linguistics Sapir had called for four decades earlier.
After four more decades, just as Hymes (1964) worried that linguistics had been bleached of its association with the study of human interaction in the wake of formalist studies, scholars noted that sociolinguistics in turn had narrowed to denote only specific types of study. Sociocultural linguistics is thus "the broad interdisciplinary field concerned with the intersection of language, culture, and society" (Bucholtz and Hall 2005: 5).
References
Bucholtz, Mary, and Kira Hall. 2005. "Identity and Interaction: A Sociocultural Linguistic Approach." Discourse Studies 7(4-5).
Hymes, Dell. 1964. "Introduction: Toward Ethnographies of Communication." American Anthropologist 66(6), part 2, 1-34.
Sapir, Edward. 1929. "The Status of Linguistics as a Science." Language 5(4), 207-214.
External links
Resources for Sociocultural Linguistics
The Sociology of Knowledge Approach to Discourse (SKAD) is a social science research programme for studying discourse developed by Reiner Keller in order to analyze knowledge relationships and conditions in society. SKAD stems from the sociology of knowledge of Peter L. Berger and Thomas Luckmann who in the 1960s studied the processes involved in the social construction of generally accessible everyday knowledge in their defining work, "The Social Construction of Reality". Keller combines this approach with Michel Foucault's discourse theory, whose work responsible for the prominent role of discourse concepts in social science and inspired several approaches to discourse analysis in other scientific disciplines. As a comprehensive analytical perspective, SKAD has been applied in a number of empirical studies, not only within social science but also in disciplines that extend beyond its borders (e.g., in archaeology, japanese studies, criminology, or in linguistics). SKAD is predominantly in use within German-speaking academia, though interest has recently been increasing in the English-speaking world.
References

A speech act in linguistics and the philosophy of language is an utterance that has performative function in language and communication. According to Kent Bach, "almost any speech act is really the performance of several acts at once, distinguished by different aspects of the speaker's intention: there is the act of saying something, what one does in saying it, such as requesting or promising, and how one is trying to affect one's audience." The contemporary use of the term goes back to J. L. Austin's development of performative utterances and his theory of locutionary, illocutionary, and perlocutionary acts. Speech acts are commonly taken to include such acts as promising, ordering, greeting, warning, inviting and congratulating.

Locutionary, illocutionary and perlocutionary acts
Speech acts can be analysed on three levels:
A locutionary act, the performance of an utterance: the actual utterance and its ostensible meaning, comprising phonetic, phatic and rhetic acts corresponding to the verbal, syntactic and semantic aspects of any meaningful utterance;
an illocutionary act: the pragmatic 'illocutionary force' of the utterance, thus its intended significance as a socially valid verbal action (see below);
and in certain cases a further perlocutionary act: its actual effect, such as persuading, convincing, scaring, enlightening, inspiring, or otherwise getting someone to do or realize something, whether intended or not (Austin 1962)
Illocutionary acts
The concept of an illocutionary act is central to the concept of a speech act. Although there are numerous opinions regarding how to define 'illocutionary acts', there are some kinds of acts which are widely accepted as illocutionary, as for example promising, ordering someone, and bequeathing.
Following the usage of, for example, John R. Searle, "speech act" is often meant to refer just to the same thing as the term illocutionary act, which John L. Austin had originally introduced in How to Do Things with Words (published posthumously in 1962). Searle's work on speech acts is also commonly understood to refine Austin's conception. However, some philosophers have pointed out a significant difference between the two conceptions: whereas Austin emphasized the conventional interpretation of speech acts, Searle emphasized a psychological interpretation (based on beliefs, intentions, etc.).
According to Austin's preliminary informal description, the idea of an "illocutionary act" can be captured by emphasizing that "by saying something, we do something", as when someone issues an order to someone to go by saying "Go!", or when a minister joins two people in marriage saying, "I now pronounce you husband and wife." (Austin would eventually define the "illocutionary act" in a more exact manner.)
An interesting type of illocutionary speech act is that performed in the utterance of what Austin calls performatives, typical instances of which are "I nominate John to be President", "I sentence you to ten years' imprisonment", or "I promise to pay you back." In these typical, rather explicit cases of performative sentences, the action that the sentence describes (nominating, sentencing, promising) is performed by the utterance of the sentence itself.
Classifying illocutionary speech acts
Searle (1975) has set up the following classification of illocutionary speech acts:
assertives = speech acts that commit a speaker to the truth of the expressed proposition, e.g. reciting a creed
directives = speech acts that are to cause the hearer to take a particular action, e.g. requests, commands and advice
commissives = speech acts that commit a speaker to some future action, e.g. promises and oaths
expressives = speech acts that express the speaker's attitudes and emotions towards the proposition, e.g. congratulations, excuses and thanks
declaratives = speech acts that change the reality in accord with the proposition of the declaration, e.g. baptisms, pronouncing someone guilty or pronouncing someone husband and wife
Indirect speech acts
In the course of performing speech acts we ordinarily communicate with each other. The content of communication may be identical, or almost identical, with the content intended to be communicated, as when a stranger asks, "What is your name?"
However, the meaning of the linguistic means used (if ever there are linguistic means, for at least some so-called "speech acts" can be performed non-verbally) may also be different from the content intended to be communicated. One may, in appropriate circumstances, request Peter to do the dishes by just saying, "Peter ...!", or one can promise to do the dishes by saying, "Me!" One common way of performing speech acts is to use an expression which indicates one speech act, and indeed performs this act, but also performs a further speech act, which is indirect. One may, for instance, say, "Peter, can you open the window?", thereby asking Peter whether he will be able to open the window, but also requesting that he does so. Since the request is performed indirectly, by means of (directly) performing a question, it counts as an indirect speech act.
Indirect speech acts are commonly used to reject proposals and to make requests. For example, a speaker asks, "Would you like to meet me for coffee?" and another replies, "I have class." The second speaker used an indirect speech act to reject the proposal. This is indirect because the literal meaning of "I have class" does not entail any sort of rejection.
This poses a problem for linguists because it is confusing (on a rather simple approach) to see how the person who made the proposal can understand that his proposal was rejected. Following substantially an account of H. P. Grice, Searle suggests that we are able to derive meaning out of indirect speech acts by means of a cooperative process out of which we are able to derive multiple illocutions; however, the process he proposes does not seem to accurately solve the problem. Sociolinguistics has studied the social dimensions of conversations. This discipline considers the various contexts in which speech acts occur.
In other words this means that one does not need to say the words apologize, pledge, or praise in order to show they are doing the action. All the examples above show how the actions and indirect words make something happen rather than coming out straightforward with specific words and saying it.
John Searle's theory of "indirect speech acts"
Searle has introduced the notion of an 'indirect speech act', which in his account is meant to be, more particularly, an indirect 'illocutionary' act. Applying a conception of such illocutionary acts according to which they are (roughly) acts of saying something with the intention of communicating with an audience, he describes indirect speech acts as follows: "In indirect speech acts the speaker communicates to the hearer more than he actually says by way of relying on their mutually shared background information, both linguistic and nonlinguistic, together with the general powers of rationality and inference on the part of the hearer." An account of such act, it follows, will require such things as an analysis of mutually shared background information about the conversation, as well as of rationality and linguistic conventions.
In connection with indirect speech acts, Searle introduces the notions of 'primary' and 'secondary' illocutionary acts. The primary illocutionary act is the indirect one, which is not literally performed. The secondary illocutionary act is the direct one, performed in the literal utterance of the sentence (Searle 178). In the example:
(1) Speaker X: "We should leave for the show or else we’ll be late."
(2) Speaker Y: "I am not ready yet."
Here the primary illocutionary act is Y's rejection of X's suggestion, and the secondary illocutionary act is Y's statement that Y is not ready to leave. By dividing the illocutionary act into two subparts, Searle is able to explain that we can understand two meanings from the same utterance all the while knowing which is the correct meaning to respond to.
With his doctrine of indirect speech acts Searle attempts to explain how it is possible that a speaker can say something and mean it, but additionally mean something else. This would be impossible, or at least it would be an improbable case, if in such a case the hearer had no chance of figuring out what the speaker means (over and above what they say and mean). Searle's solution is that the hearer can figure out what the indirect speech act is meant to be, and he gives several hints as to how this might happen. For the previous example Direct Speech and Indirect Speech "While direct speech purports to give a verbatim rendition of the words that were spoken, indirect speech is more variable in claiming to represent a faithful report of the content or content and form of the words that were spoken. It is important to note, however, that the question of whether and how faithful a given speech report actually is, is of a quite different order. Both direct and indirect speech are stylistic devices for conveying messages. The former is used as if the words being used were those of another, which are therefore pivoted to a deictic center different from the speech situation of the report. Indirect speech, in contrast, has its deictic center in the report situation and is variable with respect to the extent that faithfulness to the linguistic form of what was said is being claimed." (Florian Coulmas, "Reported Speech: Some General Issues.") a condensed process might look like this:
Step 1: A proposal is made by X, and Y responded by means of an illocutionary act (2).
Step 2: X assumes that Y is cooperating in the conversation, being sincere, and that Y has made a statement that is relevant.
Step 3: The literal meaning of (2) is not relevant to the conversation.
Step 4: Since X assumes that Y is cooperating; there must be another meaning to (2).
Step 5: Based on mutually shared background information, X knows that they cannot leave until Y is ready. Therefore, Y has rejected X's proposition.
Step 6: X knows that Y has said something in something other than the literal meaning, and the primary illocutionary act must have been the rejection of X's proposal.
Searle argues that a similar process can be applied to any indirect speech act as a model to find the primary illocutionary act (178). His proof for this argument is made by means of a series of supposed "observations" (ibid., 180-182).
Analysis using Searle's theory
In order to generalize this sketch of an indirect request, Searle proposes a program for the analysis of indirect speech act performances, whatever they are. He makes the following suggestion:
Step 1: Understand the facts of the conversation.
Step 2: Assume cooperation and relevance on behalf of the participants.
Step 3: Establish factual background information pertinent to the conversation.
Step 4: Make assumptions about the conversation based on steps 1–3.
Step 5: If steps 1–4 do not yield a consequential meaning, then infer that there are two illocutionary forces at work.
Step 6: Assume the hearer has the ability to perform the act the speaker suggests. The act that the speaker is asking be performed must be something that would make sense for one to ask. For example, the hearer might have the ability to pass the salt when asked to do so by a speaker who is at the same table, but not have the ability to pass the salt to a speaker who is asking the hearer to pass the salt during a telephone conversation.
Step 7: Make inferences from steps 1–6 regarding possible primary illocutions.
Step 8: Use background information to establish the primary illocution (Searle 184).
With this process, Searle concludes that he has found a method that will satisfactorily reconstruct what happens when an indirect speech act is performed. Direct Speech and Indirect Speech "While direct speech purports to give a verbatim rendition of the words that were spoken, indirect speech is more variable in claiming to represent a faithful report of the content or content and form of the words that were spoken. It is important to note, however, that the question of whether and how faithful a given speech report actually is, is of a quite different order. Both direct and indirect speech are stylistic devices for conveying messages. The former is used as if the words being used were those of another, which are therefore pivoted to a deictic center different from the speech situation of the report. Indirect speech, in contrast, has its deictic center in the report situation and is variable with respect to the extent that faithfulness to the linguistic form of what was said isdo n= being claimed." (Florian Coulmas, "Reported Speech: Some General Issues."
History
For much of the history of linguistics and the positivist philosophy of language, language was viewed primarily as a way of making factual assertions, and the other uses of language tended to be ignored, as Austin states at the beginning of Lecture 1, "It was for too long the assumption of philosophers that the business of a 'statement' can only be to 'describe' some state of affairs, or to 'state some fact', which it must do either truly or falsely." He was one of the first people who made a systematic account for the use of language. Later Wittgenstein came up with the idea of "don't ask for the meaning, ask for the use." showing language as a new vehicle for social activity. Speech act theory hails from Wittgenstein’s philosophical theories. Wittgenstein believed meaning derives from pragmatic tradition, demonstrating the importance of how language is used to accomplish objectives within specific situations. By following rules to accomplish a goal, communication becomes a set of language games. Thus, utterances do more than reflect a meaning, they are words designed to get things done. The work of J. L. Austin, particularly his How to Do Things with Words, led philosophers to pay more attention to the non-declarative uses of language. The terminology he introduced, especially the notions "locutionary act", "illocutionary act", and "perlocutionary act", occupied an important role in what was then to become the "study of speech acts". All of these three acts, but especially the "illocutionary act", are nowadays commonly classified as "speech acts".
Austin was by no means the first one to deal with what one could call "speech acts" in a wider sense. The term 'social act' and some of the theory of this sui generis type of linguistic action are to be found in the fifth of Thomas Reid's Essays on the Active Powers of the Human Mind (1788, chapter VI, Of the Nature of a Contract). "A man may see, and hear, and remember, and judge, and reason; he may deliberate and form purposes, and execute them, without the intervention of any other intelligent being. They are solitary acts. But when he asks a question for information, when he testifies a fact, when he gives a command to his servant, when he makes a promise, or enters into a contract, these are social acts of mind, and can have no existence without the intervention of some other intelligent being, who acts a part in them. Between the operations of the mind, which, for want of a more proper name, I have called solitary, and those I have called social, there is this very remarkable distinction, that, in the solitary, the expression of them by words, or any other sensible sign, is accidental. They may exist, and be complete, without being expressed, without being known to any other person. But, in the social operations, the expression is essential. They cannot exist without being expressed by words or signs, and known to the other party."
Adolf Reinach (1883–1917) and Stanislav Škrabec (1844-1918), have been both independently credited with a fairly comprehensive account of social acts as performative utterances dating to 1913, long before Austin and Searle. For Reinach see 
The term "Speech Act" had also been already used by Karl Bühler.
The term metalocutionary act has also been used to indicate a speech act that refers to the forms and functions of the discourse itself rather than continuing the substantive development of the discourse, or to the configurational functions of prosody and punctuation.
In language development
Dore (1975) proposed that children's utterances were realizations of one of nine primitive speech acts:
labelling
repeating
answering
requesting (action)
requesting (answer)
calling
greeting
protesting
practicing
Formalization
There is no agreed formalization of Speech Act theory. A first attempt to give some grounds of an illocutionary logic has been given by John Searle and D. Vandervecken 1985. Other attempts have been proposed by Per Martin-Löf for a treatment of the concept of assertion inside intuitionisti type theory, and by Carlo Dalla Pozza, with a proposal of a formal pragmatics connecting propositional content (given with classical semantics) and illocutionary force (given by intuitionistic semantics). Up to now the main basic formal application of Speech Act theory are to be found in the field of human-computer interaction (in chatboxes and other tools: see below).
In computer science
Computational speech act models of human-computer conversation have been developed.
Speech act theory has been used to model conversations for automated classification and retrieval.
Another highly-influential view of Speech Acts has been in the 'Conversation for Action' developed by Terry Winograd and Fernando Flores in their 1987 text "Understanding Computers and Cognition: A New Foundation for Design". Arguably the most important part of their analysis lies in a state-transition diagram (in Chapter 5) that Winograd and Flores claim underlies the significant illocutionary (speech act) claims of two parties attempting to coordinate action with one another (no matter whether the agents involved might be human-human, human-computer, or computer-computer).
A key part of this analysis is the contention that one dimension of the social domain- tracking the illocutionary status of the transaction (whether individual participants claim that their interests have been met, or not) is very readily conferred to a computer process- independent of whether the computer has the means to adequately represent the real world issues underlying that claim. Thus a computer instantiating the 'conversation for action' has the useful ability to model the status of the current social reality independent of any external reality on which social claims may be based.
This transactional view of speech acts has significant applications in many areas in which (human) individuals have had different roles- for instance- a patient and a physician might meet in an encounter in which the patient makes a request for treatment, the physician responds with a counter-offer involving a treatment she feels is appropriate, and the patient might respond, etc. Such a "Conversation for Action" can describe a situation in which an external observer (such as a computer or health information system) may be able to track the ILLOCUTIONARY (or Speech Act) STATUS of negotiations between the patient and physician participants even in the absence of any adequate model of the illness or proposed treatments. The key insight provided by Winograd and Flores is that the state-transition diagram representing the SOCIAL (Illocutionary) negotiation of the two parties involved is generally much, much simpler than any model representing the world in which those parties are making claims- in short- the system tracking the status of the 'conversation for action' need not be concerned with modeling all of the realities of the external world- a conversation for action is critically dependent upon certain stereotypical CLAIMS about the status of the world made by the two parties. Thus a "Conversation for Action" can be readily tracked and facilitated by a device with little or no ability to model circumstances in the real world other than the ability to register claims by specific agents about a domain.
Uses in technology
In making useful applications of technology to domains such as healthcare, it is helpful to discriminate between problems which are very, very hard (such as deep understanding of pathophysiology as it relates to genetic and various environmental influences) and problem which are relatively easier, such as following the status of negotiations between a patient and a health care provider. Speech Act (Illocutionary) Analysis allows for a useful understanding of the status of a negotiation between (for instance) a health care provider and a patient INDEPENDENT of any well-accepted credible and comprehensive understanding of a disease process as it might apply to that patient. For this reason, systems which track the status of PROMISES and REJECTED-PROPOSALS and ACCEPTED-PROMISES can help us to understand the situations in which (human or computer) AGENTS find themselves as they attempt to fulfill ROLES involving other agents, and such systems can facilitate both human and human-computer systems in achieving role-associated goals.
In multiagent universes
Multi-agent systems sometimes use speech act labels to express the intent of an agent when it sends a message to another agent. For example the intent "inform" in the message "inform(content)" may be interpreted as a request that the receiving agent adds the item "content" to its knowledge-base; this is in contrast to the message "query(content)" which may be interpreted (depending on the semantics employed) as a request to see if the item content is currently in the receiving agents knowledge base. There are at least two standardisations of speech act labelled messaging KQML and FIPA.
KQML and FIPA are based on the Searlian, that is, psychological semantics of speech acts. Munindar P. Singh has long advocated moving away from the psychological to a social semantics of speech acts—one that would be in tune with Austin's conception. Andrew Jones has also been a critic of the psychological conception. A recent collection of manifestos by researchers in agent communication reflects a growing recognition in the multiagent systems community of the benefits of a social semantics.
Other uses in technology
SAMPO means Speech-Act-based office Modeling approach.
Speech act profiling has been used to detect deception in synchronous computer-mediated communication.
Notes
^ Sbisa, Marina, “How to read Austin”, in Pragmatics, 17:3 (2007), p. 461-73.
^ Bruno Ambroise, From Speech Act Theory to Pragmatics: The loss of the illocutionary point. (= Pragmatics today) [1].
^ Searle, John R. (1975), “A Taxonomy of Illocutionary Acts”, in: Günderson, K. (ed.), Language, Mind, and Knowledge, (Minneapolis Studies in the Philosophy of Science, vol. 7), University of Minneapolis Press, p. 344-69.
^ Austin, J. L. 1962. How to do things with words. London: Oxford University Press, p. 1.
^ Bach, Kent. "Speech Acts." Speech Acts. Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy, n.d. Web. 10 Feb. 2014
^ Littlejohn, S. (2009). Speech act theory. In S. Littlejohn, & K. Foss (Eds.), Encyclopedia of communication theory. (pp. 919-921). Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publications, Inc. doi: http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.fau.edu/10.4135/9781412959384.n356
^ Mulligan, K. Promisings and other social acts - their constituents and structure. in Mulligan, K., editor Speech Act and Sachverhalt: Reinach and the Foundations of Realist Phenomenology. Nijhoff, Dordrecht/Boston/Lancaster 1987. Quote from Reid 1969, 437-438)
^ Karl Schuhmann and Barry Smith "Elements of Speech Act Theory in the Work of Thomas Reid" in History of Philosophy Quarterly, 7 (1990), 47–66.
^ Jarrett Brock “An Introduction to Peirce’s Theory of Speech Acts” in Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society, 17 (1981), 319-326.
^ Mulligan, K. Promisings and other social acts - their constituents and structure. in Mulligan, K., editor Speech Act and Sachverhalt: Reinach and the Foundations of Realist Phenomenology. Nijhoff, Dordrecht/Boston/Lancaster 1987.
^ "Die Axiomatik der Sprachwissenschaften”, Kant-Studien 38 (1933), 43, where he discusses a Theorie der Sprechhandlungen
^ Sprachtheorie (Jena: Fischer, 1934) where he uses "Sprechhandlung" and "Theorie der Sprechakte"
^ Searle, J.R., Vandervecken, D.: Foundations of Illocutionary Logic.Cambridge University Press: Cambridge 1985
^ http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/Xplore/login.jsp?url=/iel2/549/4024/00154675.pdf?isnumber=4024&prod=CNF&arnumber=154675&arSt=263&ared=264&arAuthor=Morelli%2C+R.A.%3B+Bronzino%2C+J.D.%3B+Goethe%2C+J.W.
^ Using Speech Act Theory to Model Conversations for Automated Classification and Retrieval
^ "Social and Psychological Commitments in Multiagent Systems". Retrieved 24 April 2013. 
^ Andrew J. I. Jones
^ "Research Directions in Agent Communication". 
^ A speech-act-based office modeling approach
^ Detecting deception in synchronous computer-mediated communication using speech act profiling
See also
Analogy
Cooperative principle
Direction of fit
Document acts
Entailment (pragmatics)
Implicature
Metaphor
Phatic
Pragmatics
Presupposition
Politeness theory
Bibliography
John Langshaw Austin: How to Do Things With Words. Cambridge (Mass.) 1962 - Paperback: Harvard University Press, 2nd edition, 2005, ISBN 0-674-41152-8.
William P. Alston: 'Illocutionary Acts and Sentence Meaning'. Ithaca: Cornell University Press 2000, ISBN 0-8014-3669-9.
Bach, Kent. "Speech Acts." Speech Acts. Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy, n.d. Web. 10 Feb. 2014.
Doerge, Friedrich Christoph. Illocutionary Acts - Austin's Account and What Searle Made Out of It. . Tuebingen 2006.
Dorschel, Andreas, 'What is it to understand a directive speech act?', in: Australasian Journal of Philosophy LXVII (1989), nr. 3, pp. 319–340.
John Searle, Speech Acts, Cambridge University Press 1969, ISBN 0-521-09626-X.
John Searle, "Indirect speech acts." In Syntax and Semantics, 3: Speech Acts, ed. P. Cole & J. L. Morgan, pp. 59–82. New York: Academic Press. (1975). Reprinted in Pragmatics: A Reader, ed. S. Davis, pp. 265–277. Oxford: Oxford University Press. (1991)
Geo Siegwart, "Alethic Acts and Alethiological Reflection. An Outline of Constructive Philosophy of Truth." In Truth and Speech Acts: Studies in the philosophy of language, ed. D. Greimann & G. Siegwart, pp. 41–58. New York: Routledge. (2007)
Winograd, T. & Flores, F., Understanding Computers and Cognition: A New Foundation for Design, Ablex Publishing Corp, (Norwood), 1986. ISBN 0-89391-050-3.
Birgit Erler: The speech act of forbidding and its realizations: A linguistic analysis. Saarbrücken: VDM Verlag Dr. Müller, 2010, ISBN 978-3-639-23275-2.
Robert Maximilian de Gaynesford: Illocutionary acts, Subordination, and Silencing in Analysis, July 2009.
Outi, Malmivuori; Zu Stand und Entwicklung der Sprechakttheorie. Zu Grundsätzen der Theorie des spachlichen Handelns. AkademikerVerlag. 2012. ISBN 978-3-639-44043-0
External links
Speech Acts entry from Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy, by Kent Bach
Barry Smith, Towards a History of Speech Act Theory
Foundation for Intelligent Physical Agents
Speech Acts. Mitchell Green, in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
Strategies for Learning Speech Acts in Japanese by Noriko Ishihara
Moumni, Hassan (2005). Politeness in Parliamentary Discourse : A Comparative Pragmatic Study of British and Moroccan MPs’ Speech Acts at Question Time. Unpub. Ph.D. Thesis. Mohammed V University, Rabat, Morocco.
http://sl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stanislav_Škrabec
In linguistics, stance is the way in which speakers position themselves in relation to the ongoing interaction, in terms of evaluation, intentionality, epistemology or social relations. Different authors have used the concept of stance to refer to the interpretive framework that is at play in an interaction such as irony, or role-playing, other have used the concept of authorial stance to describe the way in which authors position themselves relative to their own texts, and another group have used the concept of interpersonal stance to describe the way the communicative goals of individual participants shape a communicative interaction. Others, have drawn on Daniel Dennett's concept of the intentional stance to describe the way humans tend to impute intentions and mental states to those with whom they engage in communication.
See also
Appraisal (discourse analysis)
References

Kockelman, Paul (2005). "Stance and subjectivity". Journal of Linguistic Anthropology 14 (2): 127–150. 
Englebretson, Robert, ed. Stancetaking in discourse: Subjectivity, evaluation, interaction. Vol. 164. John Benjamins Publishing, 2007.
Beach, Richard, and Chris M. Anson. "Stance and intertextuality in written discourse." Linguistics and Education 4, no. 3 (1992): 335-357.
Jaffe, Alexandra, ed. (2009). Stance: sociolinguistic perspectives. Oxford University Press. 
Mushin, Ilana. 2001 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance: Narrative Retelling. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Yannis Stavrakakis (Greek: Γιάννης Σταυρακάκης; born 1970) is a Greek political theorist. A member of the Essex School of discourse analysis, he is mainly known for his explorations of the importance of psychoanalytic theory (Freud and Lacan) for contemporary political and cultural analysis.

Education and academic career
Stavrakakis was born in Sheffield, UK. He studied political science at Panteion University (Athens) and discourse analysis at Essex University. He received his MA and PhD degrees from the ‘Ideology and Discourse Analysis’ programme at the University of Essex. His doctoral thesis, completed under the supervision of Ernesto Laclau, was entitled ‘New Directions in the Theory of Ideology and the Case of Green Ideology’.
From 1998 onwards he has worked at the Universities of Essex and Nottingham and at the Postgraduate Programme of the Department of Political Science and History of Panteion University. In 2006 he was appointed Associate Professor at the School of Political Sciences of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. He has since been promoted to Professor of Political Discourse Analysis and currently serves as deputy Head of School. 
Stavrakakis has also been recently elected (2012) in the executive board of the Hellenic Political Science Association, where he now serves as Vice-President. Within the framework of the Association, he has co-founded a Research Network dedicated to the analysis of political discourse.
Work
His research interests include contemporary political theory (with emphasis on psychoanalytic and post-structuralist approaches), the analysis of ideology and political discourse in societies of late modernity (with emphasis on the study of political ecology, populism and post-democracy) and the political dimensions of artistic practices and theater. His recent work has focused on the political and psychosocial implications of what he calls "debt societies" of Southern Europe (especially Greece) and on the emerging ideological cleavage between populist and anti-populist discourses within this context.
He has authored and co-edited many books in English and Greek and has published numerous articles in journals such as: Journal of Political Ideologies; Journal for Lacanian Studies; Psychoanalysis, Culture and Society; Philosophy and Social Criticism; Constellations; South European Society and Politics; Journal of Modern Greek Studies; Theory, Culture and Society; Third Text; Organization Studies; Planning Theory. Many of his publications have been translated to a variety of other languages including Spanish, German, Japanese, Korean, Turkish, Russian, Bulgarian, etc. He is contributing editor of the journal Psychoanalysis, Culture and Society (Palgrave) and member of the editorial boards of Subjectivity (Palgrave), Journal for Lacanian Studies and Synchrona Themata.
Books in English
The Lacanian Left (Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press/Albany: SUNY Press, 2007)
(co-edited with Jason Glynos) Lacan & Science (London: Karnac Books, 2002)
(co-edited with Aletta Norval and David Howarth) Discourse Theory and Political Analysis (Manchester: Manchester University Press, 2000)
Lacan and the Political (London and New York: Routledge, 1999)
References

External links
Yannis Stavrakakis speaks at the London School of Economics on ‘Authority, Enjoyment and the Spirits of Capitalism’ (Psychoanalysis and Society Public Lecture, Hong Kong Theatre, Clement House, London School of Economics & Political Science, London, 12 February 2010)
Yannis Stavrakakis speaks at the Onassis Cultural Centre, 19 January 2011 (in Greek)
‘Discourse and Affect: Conceptual and Political Dialectics in Theory and Empirical Analysis’ (59ο Annual Conference of the Political Studies Association, Manchester, April 2009)
‘Symbolic Authority, Fantasmatic Enjoyment and the Spirits of Capitalism: Genealogies of Mutual Engagement’ (from Carl Cederström & Casper Hoedemaekers (eds) Lacan and Organization, London: MayFlyBooks, 2010, pp. 59-100)
‘On Acts, Pure and Impure’ (International Journal of Zizek Studies, vol. 4, no. 2, 2010)
Interview published in the Argentinian newspaper Pagina12, 6 September 2010 (in Spanish)
Interview published in the Argentinian review Consecuencias, June 2011 (in Spanish)
'Debt Society', Article published in Radical Philosophy, September-October 2013
'Brutal Nihilism', Article Published in the web-journal CHRONOS, 2013
Yannis Stavrakakis writes on populism, anti-populism and Europe, 2013
Recent paper on hegemony and post-hegemony, 2013
A switcheroo is a sudden unexpected variation or reversal that is often associated with a joke (sometimes "the old switcheroo"). It is colloquially used in reference to an act of intentionally or unintentionally swapping two objects.
As a comedic device, this was a favorite of Woody Allen; for a time, he used so many switcheroos that friends referred to him as "Allen Woody." Some of Allen's switcheroo gags were:
Carrying a sword on the street; in case of an attack it turned into a cane, so people would feel sorry for him
Carrying a bullet in his breast pocket; he claimed someone once threw a Bible at him and the bullet saved his life.
Another example comes from the film The Aristocrats, wherein Wendy Liebman pulls "the old switcheroo". Whereas the joke normally is narrated as a vulgar series of actions followed by the clean punch line, Liebman narrates a very aristocratic series of actions followed by a very vulgar punch line.
In his book Gödel, Escher, Bach, Douglas Hofstadter names one of the rules in his version of Propositional calculus the Switcheroo Rule, apparently in honour of an Albanian railroad engineer, name Q. Q. Switcheroo, who "worked in logic on the siding". This is in reality the disjunctive syllogism.
One of the most famous examples of a switcheroo is the feud between Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck. Daffy often tries to find ways of getting Elmer Fudd to shoot Bugs, but Bugs will somehow change the situation that ends with Daffy getting shot.
Bugs: It's true, Doc. I'm a rabbit, alright. Would you like to shoot me now or wait 'til you get home?
Daffy: Shoot him now!!!! Shoot him now!!!!
Bugs: You keep outta this! He doesn't have to shoot you now!
Daffy: He does so have to shoot me now! (to Elmer) I demand that you shoot me now!
See also
Comic strip switcheroo
Variation on a theme
Bait and switch
Man bites dog trope
The Great Switcheroo
In Soviet Russia
Transpositional pun
Rickrolling
References
^ executive editor, Anne H. Soukhanov (1992). The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language (Third ed.). Houghton Mifflin Company. p. 1816. ISBN 0-395-44895-6. 
^ a b Kanfer, Vedi S. (1972-07-03). "Woody Allen: Rabbit Running". Time Magazine: p. 25. Retrieved 2010-05-24. 
^ "Obama's trade-deal switcheroo". Post and Courier. May 30, 2011. Retrieved 2011-05-30. 
^ Provenza, Paul (2005). The Aristocrats. Mighty Cheese Productions. IMDB tt0436078. 
^ "Video of Wendy Liebman's "Aristocrats" contribution". 
^ Hofstadter, Douglas R. (1979). Gödel, Escher, Bach. Basic Books. p. 187. 
In systemic functional linguistics, the term tenor refers to the participants in a discourse, their relationships to each other, and their purposes.
In examining how context affects language use, linguists refer to the context-specific variety of language as a register. The three aspects of the context are known as field, tenor and mode. Field refers to the subject matter or content being discussed. Mode refers to the channel (such as writing, or video-conference) of the communication. By understanding these three variables, the kind of language likely to be used in a particular setting can be predicted — and, Michael Halliday suggests, this is exactly what we do, unconsciously, as language users.
In analysing the parts of a metaphor, "tenor" has another meaning, unrelated to the meaning above. According to I. A. Richards, the two parts of a metaphor are the tenor and vehicle. The tenor is the subject to which attributes are ascribed. The vehicle is the subject from which the attributes are derived. Thus, they are broadly equivalent to the notions of target and source domains in conceptual metaphor theory. 
See also
Affect (linguistics)
References
^ Halliday, Michael Alexander Kirkwood (1985). Spoken and written language. Oxford: Oxford University Press, p. 12
^ Cuddon, J. A. (1998) "Tenor and vehicle". In: A Dictionary of Literary Terms and Literary Theory. Oxford & Malden, MA: Blackwell, fourth edition, p. 904
^ Danesi, Marcel (1993) Vico, metaphor, and the origin of language. Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press, p. 126
In linguistics, a corpus (plural corpora) or text corpus is a large and structured set of texts (nowadays usually electronically stored and processed). They are used to do statistical analysis and hypothesis testing, checking occurrences or validating linguistic rules within a specific language territory.

Overview
A corpus may contain texts in a single language (monolingual corpus) or text data in multiple languages (multilingual corpus). Multilingual corpora that have been specially formatted for side-by-side comparison are called aligned parallel corpora.
In order to make the corpora more useful for doing linguistic research, they are often subjected to a process known as annotation. An example of annotating a corpus is part-of-speech tagging, or POS-tagging, in which information about each word's part of speech (verb, noun, adjective, etc.) is added to the corpus in the form of tags. Another example is indicating the lemma (base) form of each word. When the language of the corpus is not a working language of the researchers who use it, interlinear glossing is used to make the annotation bilingual.
Some corpora have further structured levels of analysis applied. In particular, a number of smaller corpora may be fully parsed. Such corpora are usually called Treebanks or Parsed Corpora. The difficulty of ensuring that the entire corpus is completely and consistently annotated means that these corpora are usually smaller, containing around one to three million words. Other levels of linguistic structured analysis are possible, including annotations for morphology, semantics and pragmatics.
Corpora are the main knowledge base in corpus linguistics. The analysis and processing of various types of corpora are also the subject of much work in computational linguistics, speech recognition and machine translation, where they are often used to create hidden Markov models for part of speech tagging and other purposes. Corpora and frequency lists derived from them are useful for language teaching. Corpora can be considered as a type of foreign language writing aid as the contextualised grammatical knowledge acquired by non-native language users through exposure to authentic texts in corpora allows learners to grasp the manner of sentence formation in the target language, enabling effective writing.
Archaeological corpora
Text corpora are also used in the study of historical documents, for example in attempts to decipher ancient scripts, or in Biblical scholarship. Some archaeological corpora can be of such short duration that they provide a snapshot in time. One of the shortest corpora in time, may be the 15–30 year Amarna letters texts (1350 BC). The corpus of an ancient city, (for example the "Kültepe Texts" of Turkey), may go through a series of corpora, determined by their find site dates.
Some notable text corpora

See also
Concordance
Corpus linguistics
Linguistic Data Consortium
Natural language processing
Natural Language Toolkit
Parallel text alignment
Search engines: they access the "web corpus".
Speech corpus
Translation memory
Treebank
Zipf's Law
References

External links
Free, web-based corpora (45-425 million words each): American (COCA, COHA, TIME), British (BNC), Spanish, Portuguese
Computational Linguistics at DMOZ
ACL SIGLEX Resource Links: Text Corpora
The Leipzig Glossing Rules: Conventions for interlinear morpheme-by-morpheme glosses
Developing Linguistic Corpora: a Guide to Good Practice
An interface for querying automatically-constructed virtual corpora.
TEP: Tehran English-Persian Parallel Corpus.
[1] Building synchronous parallel corpora of the languages taught at the Faculty of Arts of Charles University.
TS Corpus - A Turkish Corpus freely available for academic research.
Turkish National Corpus - A general-purpose corpus for contemporary Turkish
Free web-based English corpus to download (3 billion words)
Text linguistics is a branch of linguistics that deals with texts as communication systems. Its original aims lay in uncovering and describing text grammars. The application of text linguistics has, however, evolved from this approach to a point in which text is viewed in much broader terms that go beyond a mere extension of traditional grammar towards an entire text. Text linguistics takes into account the form of a text, but also its setting, i.e. the way in which it is situated in an interactional, communicative context. Both the author of a (written or spoken) text as well as its addressee are taken into consideration in their respective (social and/or institutional) roles in the specific communicative context. In general it is an application of discourse analysis at the much broader level of text, rather than just a sentence or word.

Introduction
Reasons for text linguistics
Much attention has been given to the sentence as a self-contained unit, and not enough has been given to studying how sentences may be used in connected stretches of language. It is essentially the presentation of language as sets of sentences.
Text is extremely significant in communication because people communicate not by means of individual words or fragments of sentences in languages, but by means of texts. It is also the basis of various disciplines such as law, religion, medicine, science, politics, et cetera.
Definitions
A text is an extended structure of syntactic units [i.e. text as super-sentence] such as words, groups, and clauses and textual units that is marked by both coherence among the elements and completion ... [Whereas] A non-text consists of random sequences of linguistic units such as sentences, paragraphs, or sections in any temporal and/or spatial extension. (Werlich, 1976: 23)
A naturally occurring manifestation of language, i.e. as a communicative language event in a context. The surface text is the set of expressions actually used; these expressions make some knowledge explicit, while other knowledge remains implicit, though still applied during processing. (Beaugrande and Dressler, 1981: 63)
[A term] used in linguistics to refer to any passage- spoken or written, of whatever length, that does form a unified whole [….] A text is a unit of language in use. It is not a grammatical unit, like a clause or a sentence; and it is not defined by its size [….] A text is best regarded as a semantic unit; a unit not of form but of meaning. (Halliday and Hasan, 1976: 1–2)
A text is made up of sentences, but there exist separate principles of text-construction, beyond the rules for making sentences. (Fowler, 1991: 59)
[Text is] a set of mutually relevant communicative functions, structured in such a way as to achieve an overall rhetorical purpose. (Hatim and Mason, 1990)
Text linguists generally agree that text is the natural domain of language, but they still differ in their perspectives of what constitutes a text. This variance is mainly due to the different methods of observations of different linguists, and as such, the definition of text is not yet concrete.
Significance of contexts
There is a text and there is other text that accompanies it: text that is ‘with’, namely the con-text. This notion of what is ‘with the text’, however, goes beyond what is said and written: it includes other non-verbal signs-on-the total environment in which a text unfolds. (Halliday and Hasan, 1985: 5)
According to Halliday, text is a sign representation of a socio-cultural event embedded in a context of situation. Context of situation is the semio-socio-cultural environment in which the text unfolds. Text and context are so intimately related that neither concept can be comprehended in the absence of the other.
Three features of context of situation
The field of discourse – experiential meaning
This is the meaning that the social actions and the engagements of the participants are giving to the understanding of the text.
The tenor of discourse – interpersonal meaning
This is the meaning that the roles of and relationships among participants give to the understanding of the text. These relationships may be permanent or temporary. The contribution to meaning by social statuses of the participants also fall within this feature.
The mode of discourse – logical meaning
This is the meaning that the language, written or spoken, gives to the understanding of the text. This includes the symbolic organization of the text, as well as its intended function within the context.
Texture
Texture is the basis for unity and semantic interdependence within text. Any text that lacks texture would simply be a bunch of isolated sentences that have no relationship to each other. (Crane, 1994) A feature of texture is "sequential implicativeness", as suggested by Schegloff and Sacks (1974). This refers to the property of language such that each line in a text is linked from or linked to the previous line. As such, language contains a linear sequence and this linear progression of text creates a context of meaning. This contextual meaning, at the paragraph level is referred to as "coherence", while the internal properties of meaning are referred to as "cohesion". (Eggins, 1994: 85) There are two aspects of coherence, namely, "situational" coherence and "generic" coherence. There is situational coherence when field, tenor, and mode can be identified for a certain group of clauses. On the other hand, there is generic coherence when the text can be recognized as belonging to a certain genre. Thereby, cohesion is the result of "semantic ties", which refers to the dependent links between items within a text. These ties come together to create meaning. Texture is, therefore, created within text when the properties of coherence and cohesion are present.
Text types
Most linguists agree on the classification into five text-types: narrative, descriptive, argumentative, instructive, and comparison/contrast. Some classifications divide the types of texts according to their function. Others differ because they take into consideration the topic of the texts, the producer and the addressee, or the style. Adam and Petitjean, (1989) proposed analyzing of overlaps of different text types with text sequences. Virtanen (1992) establishes a double classification (discourse type and text type) to be used when the Identification text-text type is not straightforward.
Structure
As a science of text, text linguistics describes or explains among different types of text the:
Shared features
Distinct features
Text linguistics is the study of how texts function in human interaction. Beaugrande and Dressler define a text as a “communicative occurrence which meets seven standards of textuality” – Cohesion, Coherence, Intentionality, Acceptability, Informativity, Situationality and Intertextuality, without any of which the text will not be communicative. Non-communicative texts are treated as non-texts.
Cohesion
Surface texts are the exact words that people see or hear. Cohesion concerns the ways in which the components of the surface text are connected within a sequence. Grammatical forms and conventions are adhered to by surface components and therefore cohesion rests upon grammatical dependencies. The grammatical dependencies in surface texts are major signals for sorting out meanings and uses. Cohesion encompasses all of the functions that can be used to signal relations among surface elements.
Such a text can be divided up into various dependencies. Someone might construe it as a notice about "slow cars" that are "held up', so that conclusions could be drawn about the need to drive fast to avoid being held up. However, it is more likely for one to divide the text into "slow" and "cars held up', so that drivers will drive slowly to avoid accidents or take alternative routes to avoid being caught in the slow traffic. A science of text should explain how ambiguities such as this are possible, as well as how they are precluded or resolved without much difficulty. For efficient communication to take place there must be interaction between cohesion and other standards of textuality because the surface alone is not decisive.
Coherence
Coherence concerns the ways in which concepts and relations, which underlie the surface text, are linked, relevant and used, to achieve efficient communication.
A concept is a cognitive content which can be retrieved or triggered with a high degree of consistency in the mind
Relations are the links between concepts within a text, with each link identified with the concept that it connects to
Surface texts may not always express relations explicitly therefore people supply as many relations as are needed to make sense out of any particular text. In the example of the road sign "SLOW CARS HELD UP', "cars" is an object concept and "held up" an action concept, and the "cars" are the link to "held up'. Therefore, "slow" is more likely to be interpreted as a motion than as the speed at which cars are travelling. Types of relations include:
I.Causality


"Itsy Bitsy spider climbing up the spout. Down came the rain and washed the spider out."


The event of "raining" causes the event of "washing the spider out" because it creates the necessary conditions for the latter; without the rain, the spider will not be washed out.
II.Enablement


"Humpty Dumpty sat on the wall, Humpty Dumpty had a great fall."


The action of sitting on the wall created the sufficient but not necessary conditions for the action of falling down. Sitting on a wall makes it possible but not obligatory for falling down to occur.
III.Reason


"Jack shall have but a penny a day because he can't work any faster."


In contrast to the rain which causes Itsy Bitsy spider to be washed out, the slow working does not actually cause or enable the low wage. Instead, the low wage is a reasonable outcome; "reason" is used to term actions that occur as a rational response to a previous event.
IV.Purpose


"Old Mother Hubbard went to the cupboard to get her poor dog a bone."


In contrast to Humpty Dumpty's action of sitting on the wall which enables the action of falling down, there is a plan involved here; Humpty Dumpty did not sit on the wall so that it could fall down but Old Mother Hubbard went to the cupboard so that she could get a bone. "Purpose" is used to term events that are planned to be made possible via a previous event.
V.Time
"Cause", "enablement" and "reason" have forward directionality with the earlier event causing, enabling or providing reason for the later event. "Purpose', however, has a backward directionality as the later event provides the purpose for the earlier event.
More than just a feature of texts, coherence is also the outcome of cognitive processes among text users. The nearness and proximity of events in a text will trigger operations which recover or create coherence relations.


"The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts;
The Knave of Hearts, he stole the tarts;
The King of Hearts, called for the tarts."


In the explicit text, there is a set of actions (making, stealing and calling); the only relations presented are the agent and the affected entity of each action. However, a text receiver is likely to assume that the locations of all three events are close to one another as well as occur in a continuous and relatively short time frame. One might also assume that the actions are meant to signal the attributes of the agents; the Queen is skilled in cooking, the Knave is dishonest and the King is authoritative. As such, coherence encompasses inferencing based on one's knowledge.
For a text to make sense, there has to be interaction between one's accumulated knowledge and the text-presented knowledge. Therefore, a science of texts is probabilistic instead of deterministic, that is, inferences by users of any particular text will be similar most of the time instead of all of the time. Most text users have a common core of cognitive composition, engagement and process such that their interpretations of texts through "sensing" are similar to what text senders intend them to be. Without cohesion and coherence, communication would be slowed down and could break down altogether. Cohesion and coherence are text-centred notions, designating operations directed at the text materials.
Intentionality
Intentionality concerns the text producer's attitude and intentions as the text producer uses cohesion and coherence to attain a goal specified in a plan. Without cohesion and coherence, intended goals may not be achieved due to a breakdown of communication. However, depending on the conditions and situations in which the text is used, the goal may still be attained even when cohesion and coherence are not upheld.
Even though cohesion is not maintained in this example, the text producer still succeeds in achieving the goal of finding out if the text receiver wanted a piggyback.
Acceptability
Acceptability concerns the text receiver's attitude that the text should constitute useful or relevant details or information such that it is worth accepting. Text type, the desirability of goals and the political and sociocultural setting, as well as cohesion and coherence are important in influencing the acceptability of a text.
Text producers often speculate on the receiver's attitude of acceptability and present texts that maximizes the probability that the receivers will respond as desired by the producers. For example, texts that are open to a wide range of interpretations, such as "Call us before you dig. You may not be able to afterwards," require more inferences about the related consequences. This is more effective than an explicit version of the message that informs receivers the full consequences of digging without calling because receivers are left with a large amount of uncertainty as to the consequences that could result; this plays to the risk averseness of people.
Informativity
Informativity concerns the extent to which the contents of a text are already known or expected as compared to unknown or unexpected. No matter how expected or predictable content may be, a text will always be informative at least to a certain degree due to unforeseen variability. The processing of highly informative text demands greater cognitive ability but at the same time is more interesting. The level of informativity should not exceed a point such that the text becomes too complicated and communication is endangered. Conversely, the level of informativity should also not be so low that it results in boredom and the rejection of the text.
Situationality
Situationality concerns the factors which make a text relevant to a situation of occurrence. The situation in which a text is exchanged influences the comprehension of the text. There may be different interpretations with the road sign
However, the most likely interpretation of the text is obvious because the situation in which the text is presented provides the context which influences how text receivers interpret the text. The group of receivers (motorists) who are required to provide a particular action will find it more reasonable to assume that "slow" requires them to slow down rather than referring to the speed of the cars that are ahead. Pedestrians can tell easily that the text is not directed towards them because varying their speeds is inconsequential and irrelevant to the situation. In this way, the situation decides the sense and use of the text.
Situationality can affect the means of cohesion; less cohesive text may be more appropriate than more cohesive text depending on the situation. If the road sign was "Motorists should reduce their speed and proceed slowly because the vehicles ahead are held up by road works, therefore proceeding at too high a speed may result in an accident', every possible doubt of intended receivers and intention would be removed. However, motorists only have a very short amount of time and attention to focus on and react to road signs. Therefore, in such a case, economical use of text is much more effective and appropriate than a fully cohesive text.
Intertextuality
Intertextuality concerns the factors which make the utilization of one text dependent upon knowledge of one or more previously encountered text. If a text receiver does not have prior knowledge of a relevant text, communication may break down because the understanding of the current text is obscured. Texts such as parodies, rebuttals, forums and classes in school, the text producer has to refer to prior texts while the text receivers have to have knowledge of the prior texts for communication to be efficient or even occur. In other text types such as puns, for example "Time flies like an arrow; fruit flies like a banana', there is no need to refer to any other text.
Main contributors
Robert-Alain de Beaugrande
Robert-Alain de Beaugrande was a text linguists and a discourse analyst, one of the leading figures of the Continental tradition in the discipline. He was one of the developers of the Vienna School of Textlinguistik (Department of Linguistics at the University of Vienna), and published the seminal Introduction to Text Linguistics in 1981, with Wolfgang U. Dressler. He was also a major figure in the consolidation of critical discourse analysis.
Application to language learning
Text linguistics stimulates reading by arousing interest in texts or novels. Increases background knowledge on literature and on different kinds of publications. Writing skills can be improved by familiarizing and duplicating specific text structures and the use of specialized vocabulary.
See also
Linguistics
History of linguistics
References"Think of the children" (also "What about the children?") is a phrase that evolved into a rhetorical tactic. Used literally it to refers to children's rights, as in discussions of child labor. In debate, this plea for pity is wielded as an appeal to emotion which can constitute a logical fallacy.
Art, Argument, and Advocacy (2002) argued the exhortation may supplant emotion for reason in debate. Ethicist Jack Marshall wrote in 2005 that the phrase's popularity stemmed from its capacity to stunt rationality, particularly discourse on morals. "Think of the children" was invoked by censorship proponents to shield children from perceived dangers. Community, Space and Online Censorship (2009) noted that classifying children in an infantile way as innocents in need of protection was a form of obsession over the concept of purity. A 2011 article in the Journal for Cultural Research observed the term grew out of a moral panic.
"Think of the children" was popularized through its satiric use on the animated television program The Simpsons, beginning in 1996. Character Helen Lovejoy pleaded: "Won't somebody please think of the children!" during contentious debate by citizens of the fictional town of Springfield.
Law professor Charles J. Ten Brink in the 2012 Georgia State University Law Review wrote that Lovejoy's use of "Think of the children" was a successful form of parody. The appeal's subsequent use in society was often the subject of mockery. After its popularization on The Simpsons, use of the entreaty was referred to in 2014 as "Lovejoy's Law", the "Helen Lovejoy defence", and the "Helen Lovejoy Syndrome".

Background

Sociologist Joel Best wrote in 1993 that, during the late 19th century, adults developed increased concern for the welfare of children. He noted that societies post-industrialization saw decreasing birth rates, and parents focused more attention on fewer total children. Best wrote that during the 19th century adults began to view childhood as a sacred period of time in human development, and children as invaluable, adorable, guiltless beings. He explained that, throughout the 1970s and 1980s, adults focused more on the mindset of children as victims and sought to eliminate potential threats.
In the 1995 edited compilation book Children and the Politics of Culture, contributor Vivienne Wee analyzed the perception of children by adults and how this supported the notion of children's rights. She wrote that in this model, which she termed the European pattern, children were viewed as defenseless and unadulterated, and in need of safeguarding by authoritative adults. Wee stated that this model of the perception of children led to the idea that they required the sanctuary of the United Nations Charter and consequently the Convention on the Rights of the Child. She observed that this frame of thinking of youth as weak and innocent was focused on what might occur in the potential eventuality if children's rights were not shielded.
Wee wrote that this mode of acting towards children was not entirely with positive intentions. According to Wee, this thought pattern has the possibility of leading to hypocrisy by adults who act under the assumption that the entirety of their actions are carried out with the intent of protecting children. Under this risk there was potential for adults to profess that their wielding of power was done "for the children's own good". She noted that adult authority had the potential to be masked as empathy. Wee concluded: "These alternative cultural interpretations of the vulnerability of children would thus generate their own respective political and psychological consequences."
Child advocacy

"Think of the children" has been used in its literal sense to advocate for the rights of children. Early usage in this manner during the 20th century included writings in 1914 by the National Child Labor Committee to criticize child labor standards in the United States. U.S. President Bill Clinton used the phrase in a speech about child labor in 1999 before the International Labour Organization: "I ask you to think what could be achieved by a full and focused international effort to eliminate the worst forms of child labour. Think of the children who would go to school, whose lives would open up, whose very health would flower, freed of the crushing burden of dangerous and demeaning work, given back those irreplaceable hours of childhood for learning and playing and living."
Such use of the phrase extended into the 21st century; Sara Boyce of the Children's Law Centre in Northern Ireland drew upon the phrase to advocate for the legal rights of children in the region. The 2008 book Child Labour in a Globalized World cited the phrase to bring attention to the problem of debt bondage in child labor. Sara Dillon of Suffolk University Law School made use of the phrase "what about the children" in her 2009 book International Children's Rights to focus on the conditions of youth under child labor programs. Conversely Benjamin Powell used the phrase in his book Out of Poverty: Sweatshops in the Global Economy and observed that in the absence of child labor unfortunately some youths faced starvation or prostitution. In the 2010 book on human rights Children's Rights and Human Development, child psychiatrist Bruce D. Perry used the phrase "think of the children" to urge clinicians to incorporate a process sensitive to transitional development stages when counseling youth.
Debate tactic
Authors John Meany and Kate Shuster wrote in their 2002 book Art, Argument, and Advocacy: Mastering Parliamentary Debate that using the phrase "Think of the children" in debate was a type of logical fallacy. They identified this as a form of an appeal to emotion. The authors explained that the debater will use the phrase in an effort to emotionally sway members of the listening public instead of engaging in logical discussion. Meany and Shuster gave as an example: "I know this national missile defense plan has its detractors, but won’t someone please think of the children?" The assessment that use of the exhortation: "Think of the children" is a type of appeal to emotion was echoed by Margie Borschke in an article for the journal Media International Australia incorporating Culture and Policy. Borschke went on to call this methodology a tactic of rhetoric.
Ethicist Jack Marshall described "Think of the children!" as a tactic used in an attempt to cease back-and-forth discussion by invoking a powerful argument. According to Marshall, the strategy proved useful due to its success at stopping individuals from engaging in rationality and reason. He called this plan an unethical manner of obfuscating debate by misdirecting empathy towards another source which may not have been the focus of the original argument. He wrote that use of the phrase had positive intent but had a tendency to become irrational when used repeatedly by both sides in a dispute. Marshall concluded that referring to the phrase had the impact of manipulating a simple act of following regulations into a confusing ethical quandary. He cautioned that society should not fall into the mindset that citing "Think of the children!" had the ability to upstage all other morals and standards in civilization.
Scott Beattie wrote in his 2009 book Community, Space and Online Censorship that the exclamation "Will no one think of the children?" was often invoked by individuals advocating censorship due to concerns for youths who might view material deemed inappropriate. He opined that youngsters were cast as potential casualties of mythological sexual predators online, and were referred to in this fashion in order to increase regulation of the Internet. Beattie explained that characterizing children in an infantile manner drew upon a concept of innocence which served as a form of obsession of the very notion of purity.
Journal for Cultural Research published an article in 2010 by Debra Ferreday, which was subsequently republished in the 2011 book Hope and Feminist Theory. Ferreday wrote that use of the phrase "Won't someone think of the children!" in the media had become a common usage which evolved from a climate of moral panic. She posited that the phrase was becoming so commonplace as to have the likely prospect of turning into an oft-cited idiom similar to Godwin's law.
In a 2011 article for the journal Post Script, Andrew Scahill commented upon the power of using children in rhetoric, and wrote that it creates an untenable stance for the opposing party. Scahill explained that an individual debating with "for the children" in their argument, makes it extremely difficult for someone to argue for the opposition position, as that would mean they would be supporting a "not for the children" perspective. Cassandra Wilkinson discussed the impact of the "think of the children" rhetoric in a 2011 article for IPA Review. Wilkinson cited research by No Fear: Growing Up in a Risk-Averse Society author Tim Gill that hypersensitivity to defense of children from potential harm carries adverse impact, by contributing to an inability of youth to satisfactorily own their choices and react to dangerous situations. Writing for New Statesman, Laurie Penny characterized this tactic as a form of political belief system, and called it: "think-of-the-children-ism".
Cory Doctorow wrote in a 2011 article for Make magazine that the phrase "Won’t someone think of the children?!" was used by irrational individuals to support arguments about the dangers to youth of four types of groups on the Internet. These four groups, collectively referred to as "Four Horsemen of the Infocalypse", included: "pirates", terrorists, organized crime, and child pornographers. He wrote that use of the phrase in such a manner was done with the intent of gagging additional discussion on the merits of the underlying issues and stopping rational analysis. Doctorow observed that these tactics were often used during the burgeoning period when society was determining the proper approach to legal aspects of computing.
In his 2013 book Fervid Filmmaking, Mike Watt discussed the history of censorship related to the Obscene Publications Act 1959 in the United Kingdom and noted how films that were banned during this time period became known in common parlance as "Video nasties". Watt commented that a more current linguistic interpretation of such attempts at censorship could be referred to as the: "Think of the Children" characterization. Brian M. Reed wrote in his book Nobody's Business, published in the same year, that the phrase was essentially devoid of substance and could be replaced with "How many kittens must die", and have an equally comedic effect.
Popularization

"Think of the children" was popularized in the media in large part due to its frequent use by character Helen Lovejoy, wife of Reverend Lovejoy, on the television program The Simpsons. Lovejoy's character repeatedly exclaimed: "Think of the children!" in several episodes of The Simpsons. The character first appeared on the program in 1990. Lovejoy first used the phrase in the episode "Much Apu About Nothing", written by David X. Cohen, which aired in 1996. The Simpsons writer Bill Oakley stated in the 2005 DVD commentary on the episode that the motivation for placing the phrase on the show was to emphasize how "think of the children" was used in debate at times when it was irrelevant and sidetracked discussion from the original issues. Lovejoy used variants of the phrase including: "Oh, won't somebody please think of the children", and "What about the children?". She most often shrieked the phrase when members of the fictional town of Springfield were in the midst of debating a contentious problem or an argument about politics. She utilized the phrase when others had not succeeded using logical debate. The depiction of the character's use of the phrase on The Simpsons was done in a manner with comedic effect, which satirized its actual use in public discourse.
After its popularization on The Simpsons, the phrase's subsequent use in society was often the subject of mockery. In his 2006 book The Myth of Evil, author Phillip A. Cole observed that Helen Lovejoy's rejoinder assumed all children were pure, unadulterated potential casualties that required constant defense from danger. Cole contrasted this notion with The Simpsons character Bart Simpson who eschews conforming and regulations in favor of creating disorder. He cited this as an example of the duality of perceptions of children by society: as both guiltless potential prey, and malevolent entities to be distrusted. Cole commented that the child was perceived throughout time as simultaneously representing the savage history of humanity and an optimistic future.
In an article published in the Georgia State University Law Review, Michigan State University College of Law professor Charles J. Ten Brink wrote that Helen Lovejoy's signature phrase was a most adept and effective form of parody. The Canberra Times criticized use of the phrase to support Internet censorship by the Department of Communications of the Government of Australia in 2009, commenting that it was evocative of Helen Lovejoy. Writing for The Toronto Star, journalist Edward Keenan referred to use of the phrase as "Lovejoy's Law". Keenan defined "Lovejoy's Law" as a warning that when an individual in a debate uses the phrase, it is likely a diversion from a weak logical stance. He advised that true empathy toward children involved rational argumentation rather than use of the phrase as a form of manipulation of the debate. In an article for Ireland's Sunday Independent, Carol Hunt referred to the use of the phrase during political debate as the "Helen Lovejoy defence", and noted it had also been called the "Helen Lovejoy Syndrome". She wrote that it was often invoked in reference to hypothetical children and not children actually impacted by a problem.
See also


Notes

References

Further reading
Best, Joel (1993). Threatened Children: Rhetoric and Concern about Child-Victims. University of Chicago Press. pp. 3–6. ISBN 978-0226044262. 
Heins, Marjorie (2001). Not in Front of the Children: "Indecency", Censorship, and the Innocence of Youth. Hill & Wang. ISBN 978-0374175450. 
Meany, John; Kate Shuster (2002). Art, Argument, and Advocacy: Mastering Parliamentary Debate. New York: International Debate Education Association. p. 65. ISBN 978-0-9702130-7-5. OCLC 438996525. 
Meyer, Anneke (February 2007). "The Moral Rhetoric of Childhood". Childhood (Sage Publications) 14 (1): 85–104. doi:10.1177/0907568207072532. ISSN 0907-5682. LCCN 94645087. OCLC 41963991. 
Scahill, Andrew (2011). "The Sieve or the Scalpel: The Family Movie Act of 2004, Infantile Citizenship, and the Rhetoric of Censorship". Post Script: Essays in Film and the Humanities 30 (2): 69–81. ISSN 0277-9897 – via InfoTrac. 
Wee, Vivienne (1995). Stephens, Sharon, ed. Children and the Politics of Culture. Princeton University Press. p. 188. ISBN 978-0691043289. 
External links
Marshall, Jack (February 16, 2005). "'Think of the Children!': An Ethics Fallacy". Ethics Scoreboard (Alexandria, Virginia: ProEthics, Ltd.). Archived from the original on February 22, 2014. Retrieved November 1, 2014. 
In spoken language analysis an utterance is a smallest unit of speech. It is a continuous piece of speech beginning and ending with a clear pause. In the case of oral languages, it is generally but not always bounded by silence. Utterances do not exist in written language, only their representations do. It can be represented and delineated in written language in many ways.

Bakhtin's Theory of Utterance
According to linguist Mikhail Bakhtin, there are four accepted properties that utterances should have.
Boundaries- All utterances must be bounded by a "change of speech subject". This usually means, as previously mentioned, that they are bounded by silence.
Responsivity or dialogicity- The utterance must be either responding/following a previous utterance or generating dialogue.
Finalization- An utterance must have a clear ending, and only occurs if the speaker has said everything he or she wishes to say.
Generic form- The choice of the speech genre is determined based on the specific circumstances and sphere in which the dialogue occurs.
Bakhtin also emphasizes that an utterance and a sentence are not the same thing. According to Bakhtin, sentences do not indicate a change of speech subject, and thus do not automatically satisfy one of the four properties of utterances. According to him, the sentence as a language unit is grammatical in nature, while an utterance is "ethical".
See also
Pragmatics
Phonological hierarchy
Sentence
Speech act
Speech processing
References
^ Utterance
Further reading
Mikhail Bakhtin The Problem of Speech Genres p. xvi
BAKHTIN’S THEORY OF THE UTTERANCE:
The term waffle, particularly outside the U.S., denotes language without meaning; blathering, babbling, droning. One might waffle throughout an essay or a presentation, when not having enough material, or needing to fill in time. Etymologists say the term was derived from waff, a 17th-century onomatopoeia for the sound a barking dog makes, similar to the modern woof. Although the relationship between a dog's bark and indecisiveness is unclear, the inference is that waffle words have about as much meaning as the noise made by a dog barking.
Waffling can also be used as a derogatory term; to describe, for instance, a candidate or politician who is considered to easily switch sides on issues to curry political favor (i.e. "flip-flop"), as an easily flipped breakfast food with the same name. A waffle was famously used to represent President Bill Clinton in the Doonesbury comic strip.
The term "to waffle" denotes indecision about particular subjects; "waffling" can also mean changing one's mind frequently on a topic. Example: "Craig always waffles when he's speaking to Genevieve on the telephone". To which Genevieve usually replies "Come on Craig, come out with it!".
A person can begin to waffle after they have experienced a long-term speech impediment such as stuttering; when the speaker has overcome their speech impediment, the fact that they are unaccustomed to being able to speak freely may cause them to waffle.
ReferencesRuth Wodak is Distinguished Professor and Chair in Discourse Studies at Lancaster University. She moved from Vienna, Austria, where she was full professor of Applied Linguistics since 1991. She has stayed co-director of the Austrian National Focal Point (NFP) of the European Monitoring Centre for Racism, Xenophobia and Anti Semitism.
Her research is mainly located in Discourse Studies (DS) and in Critical Discourse Analysis (CDA). Together with her former colleagues and Ph.D students in Vienna (Rudolf de Cillia, Gertraud Benke, Helmut Gruber, Florian Menz, Martin Reisigl, Usama Suleiman, Christine Anthonissen), she elaborated the Discourse Historical Approach in CDA" (DHA) which is interdisciplinary, problem-oriented, and analyzes the change of discursive practices over time and in various genres.
She is member of the editorial board of a range of linguistic journals, co-editor of the journal Discourse and Society and editor of Critical Discourse Studies (with Norman Fairclough, Phil Graham and Jay Lemke) and of the Journal of Language and Politics (with Paul Chilton). Together with Greg Myers [1], she edits the book series DAPSAC (Benjamins). She was also section editor of "Language and Politics" for the Second Edition of the Elsevier Encyclopedia of Language and Linguistics. Ruth chaired the Humanities and Social Sciences Panel for the EURYI award, in the European Science Foundation, 2006 - 2008.
She has co-authored works with Teun A. van Dijk.

Awards and honors
Besides various other prizes, she was awarded the Wittgenstein-Preis in 1996. Her main projects focused on "Discourses on Un/employment in EU organizations; Debates on NATO and Neutrality in Austria and Hungary; The Discursive Construction of European Identities; Attitudes towards EU-Enlargement; Racism at the Top. Parliamentary Debates on Immigration in Six EU countries; The Discursive Construction of the Past - Individual and Collective Memories of the German Wehrmacht and the Second World War."
She has held visiting professorships in Uppsala, University of Minnesota and Georgetown University, Washington, D.C., and was a Fulbright Austria Scholar at Stanford University. In spring 2004, she had a Leverhulme Visiting Professorship at the University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK.
In October 2006, she was awarded the Woman's Prize of the City of Vienna.
She was awarded the Kerstin Hesselgren Chair of the Swedish Parliament and stayed at University of Örebro, Sweden, from March to June 2008.
In December 2011, Professor Karl Heinz Töchterle, Minister of Science and Education, presented her with the Grand Decoration of Honour in Silver for Services to the Republic of Austria (Großes Silbernes Ehrenzeichen für Verdienste um die Republik Österreich), in Vienna, on behalf of the President of Austria, Dr Heinz Fischer. "The award citation emphasises the social relevance and impact of her outstanding research on the discursive construction of national and transnational identities and patterns of racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism."
She was elected an Academician of the British Academy of Social Sciences in 2013.
Selected bibliography
Books
Wodak, Ruth (2011). The Discourse of Politics in Action: Politics as Usual (2nd revised edition). Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Reisigl, Martin & Wodak, Ruth (2001). Discourse and Discrimination. London: Routledge.
Wodak, Ruth (1996). Disorders of Discourse. London: Longman.
Edited books
Wodak, Ruth, Mral, Brigitte, & Khosravinik, Majid (Eds.) (2013). Right Wing Populism in Europe: Politics and Discourse. London: Bloomsbury Academic.
Wodak, Ruth (Ed.) (2013). Critical Discourse Analysis: Four Volumes. Sage.
Wodak, Ruth, Johnstone, Barbara, & Kerswill, Paul (Eds.) (2011). The Sage Handbook of Sociolinguistics. Los Angeles: Sage.
Wodak, Ruth & Meyer, Michael (Eds.) (2009). Methods of Critical Discourse Analysis (2nd revised edition). London: Sage.
Wodak, Ruth & Reisigl, Martin (Eds.) (2009). The Discursive Construction of National Identity. Edinburgh: EUP.
Wodak, Ruth & Koller, Veronika (Eds.) (2008). Handbook of Communication in the Public Sphere. Berlin: De Gruyter.
Wodak, Ruth, Krzyzanowski, Michal (2008). Qualitative Discourse Analysis in the Social Sciences. Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Wodak, Ruth & Chilton, Paul (Eds.) (2005). New Agenda in (Critical) Discourse Analysis. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Weiss, Gilbert & Wodak, Ruth (Eds.) (2003). 'Critical Discourse Analysis: Theory and Interdisciplinarity.' Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Wodak, Ruth, de Cillia, Rudolf, Reisigl, Martin, & Liebhart, Karin (Eds.) (1999). The Discursive Construction of National Identity. Edinburgh: EUP.
Wodak, Ruth (Ed.) (1997). Gender and Discourse. London: Sage.
Wodak, Ruth (Ed.) (1989). Language, Power and Ideology: Studies in Political Discourse. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Notes and references

External links
Staff page at Lancaster University
Profile at Academia.edu
Language, Ideology and Power Research Group
Journal of Language and Politics
Fulbright Austria
